Topic 5: University Saints

The three university saints are San Carlos Borromeo (1538-1584), St. Arnold Janssen (1837-1909), St. Joseph Freinademetz (1852-1908).

SAN CARLOS BORROMEO (1538-1584) 

Although USC is owned and managed by the Society of Divine Word (SVD), its name is carved after a saint who was not a member of this religious congregation. St. Charles Borromeo, whose feast falls on November 4, was born to a noble family which had produced, among others, such persons as Pope Pius IV, during whose leadership Charles became the first Cardinal of Romagna and then, at twenty-two, the Archbishop of Milan. He was an influential churchman in his time, facilitating the final deliberations of the Council of Trent and taking a large share in the drafting of the Tridentine Catechism. He bravely attended to the sick and the dead victims of the plague, sparing no expense and avoiding no danger in an effort to assist the poor. He played a major role against the reformation movement. Most relevant for this biographical sketch is his series of activities toward reform of the collegiate churches, seminaries, colleges, and communities for the education, especially of candidates for holy orders. At present, many Catholic schools and parishes all over the world are named after him, including the Seminario Mayor de San Carlos in Cebu, Philippines. This makes him a Patron of Seminaries, the reason why his name was adopted when the diocese took over the school for clerical candidates in 1783. The Colegio used to be attached to the Seminario, but legal considerations necessitated that it became an autonomous entity, a secular school from which evolved the University of San Carlos. St. Charles Borromeo is rightly venerated as a saint of learning and the arts, a reformist whose opinion was sought by both sovereign and pope.

ST. ARNOLD JANSSEN (1837-1909) 

St. Arnold Janssen (1837-1909) is the founder of the Society which now owns and manages the University of San Carlos, the Society of Divine Word (SVD), a missionary congregation of more than 6,000 brothers and priests spread all over the world, which is now the fastest growing religious male congregation in the Catholic Church. Unlike San Carlos Borromeo, St. Arnold Janssen came from a simple family of eleven children in the village of Goch in the Rhineland, Germany, not far from the Dutch border. Intellectually-endowed and keen on science and theology, he went through the usual formation of a priest.

As a young priest, he became a school teacher of the natural sciences and mathematics in Bocholt and, as a devotee to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, he was named Diocesan Director for the Apostleship of Prayer. This devotion likewise inspired him to engage in media work as a form of missionary activity, especially through the circulation of a devotional magazine, The Little Messenger of the Sacred Heart. St. ArnoldJanssen is what one might call an accidental religious founder, imbued with a vision and forced by circumstances to undertake the foundation of a missionary congregation out of obedience to his Bishop, during the difficult days of the Kulturkampf in 1875. He knew that the whole project would collapse without God’s blessings. From zero, the congregation grew to its present size like the proverbial mustard seed. 

Today, the SVD missionary world is divided into 4 zones: Asia-Pacific (ASPAC), Africa-Madagascar (AFRAM), America (PANAM) and Europe (EUROPA). In his lifetime, too, St. Arnold became providentially the founder of two congregations of missionary sisters: the Sisters of the Holy Spirit (SSpS), fondly called the Blue Sisters, and the contemplative Sisters of the Holy Spirit of Perpetual Adoration (SSpSAP), better known as the Pink Sisters. The first missionaries were sent by the Founder to China and the last missionaries, he commissioned to the Philippines, setting foot in Abra in 1909, just before he breathed his last. St. Arnold Janssen is a model not only of a missionary but also of a leader or what is now called a manager or corporate executive officer. Definitely, he was ahead of his time in his use of communication and media; he was truly a holy and dialogical founder, leader, and father.

ST. JOSEPH FREINADEMETZ (1852-1908) 

St. Joseph Freinademetz (1852-1908) was one of the first two missionaries sent outside of Germany. In fact, it was his desire to do a mission in China that attracted the young priest to go to Steyl. Fr. Joseph was born in Oies, a small hamlet in the Dolomite Alps of northern Italy, in the region known as South Tyrol, which was then part of the Austro-Hungarian empire. While studying Theology at the diocesan seminary of Brixen, he began to think seriously of foreign missions as a way of life.

As a young priest of only three years, who had already won the hearts of his parishioners, he asked permission from his Bishop to join the missionary community in Steyl, Holland. After some years of rigorous formation, on 2 March 1879, he received the mission Cross and, together with Fr. Anzer departed Europe for China. Fr. Joseph Freinademetz was a missionary par excellence. The years in South Shantung were hard years, marked by long, arduous journeys, assaults by bandits, and the difficult work of forming the f irst Christian communities. He learned the lesson of enculturation the hard way and became a true model of a Witness to the Word.

A missionary with a traditional outlook, when he first set foot on China, he thought of himself as imbued with a call to convert people to his religion; he soon discovered that mission was actually a humbling experience of self conversion. His whole life became an effort to become a Chinese among Chinese, so much so that his words are still heard today: “I love China and the Chinese. I want to die among them and be laid to rest among them.” He is reputed to have expressed the desire “to be a Chinese even in heaven.” Together with the Founder, Fr. Arnold Janssen, he was beatified by Pope Paul VI on 19 October 1975 and canonized by Pope John Paul II on 5 October 2003.