Topic 38: Enrollment Steps for Continuing Students

Following are the main steps for enrollment to be done by all continuing students:

Step 1: Log in to your ISMIS account. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and log-in using your given credentials

Step 2: Go to student enrollment function. Inside the ISMIS portal, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Student Enrollment".

Step 3: Settle your accountabilities, if any. Should you receive a pop-up message informing you that you cannot proceed with enrollment, check the content. If it alerts you about down payment, please refer to the amount indicated on your screen. if it alerts you about past dues / balances, please go to "Student Ledger" to view payables. Then pay the specified amount via payment channels and follow the payment instructions indicated. There is no need for continuing students to send proof of payment (such process is only applicable to incoming freshies). To check as to whether payment has been cleared (meaning, USC has received bank confirmation), please go to "Student Task", "Assessment", and click "Student Ledger". If you need clearance from specific offices, go to notifications icon at ISMIS, beside your profile picture by clicking click "View Notifications", then contact each office indicated and request for temporary clearance or unblocking.

Step 4a: For block enrollment, advise and enroll for a block section. Click "Block Advising", then choose your desired Block Section, and then click "Enroll Block Section". Once done, you are now officially enrolled.

Step 4b: For non-block enrollment, advise and enroll the courses one by one. Click "Advise Course", then select from the available schedules. The schedule can be picked only when the slots are not yet full and you do not have conflicts from other courses. Then click "Enroll Course". Repeat until you are able to advise and enroll the courses you are allowed to take for this semester. Note that the reservation of courses to specific departments will be enforced until open market begins where students can begin viewing the other schedules from other departments.

Step 5: Enroll in GE Free Electives. GE Free Electives may not form part of a block section in some programs. You may wish to know which elective courses are offered this semester. To do this inside ISMIS, click the "Student Task" tab, then click "Enrollment Related" from the drop-down list, then click "View Offered Courses", then type in "GE-FEL" and the current academic period and year. During the block and non-block sectioning enrollment period, you will only find GE Free Electives reserved to your department. More options will be available during open market period provided they are not full yet. Once you know which elective course to take, click the "Student Task" tab, then click "Enrollment Related" from the dropdown list, then click "Student Enrollment", then click "Advice Course". Select the rows for free electives e.g. GE-FREELEC 1, then Select from the available schedule and click "Enroll Course".

Step 6: View your study load. Should you wish to view or print your study load, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "View Study Load". This will serve as your proof of enrollment which will be asked by some of your instructors or in activities that you will be joining as a student.
