Topic 53: Post-Admission Enrollment Steps

Once the application for admission is accepted by the Department Chair, a student can now proceed to the enrollment with the following steps:

Step 1: Submit the requirements personally or via courier to the Records Section of the Office of the University Registrar. Once received and verified by the Office of the University Registrar, the applicant will now be tagged to the program applied for. The applicant will receive a clearance slip upon submission of the mandatory requirements which will be required for the issuance of the RFID (School ID) after enrollment. 

Step 2: Check the inbox and/or spam folder of the email address specified/registered in the application form. Once the applicant is tagged to his/her applied program, the applicant receives an email indicating his/her acceptance in the University as well as the student ID number and a link in ISMIS where he/she can set his/her password. The email address is the one he/she has specified in the application form. Please note that the link expires after 24 hours. To request for a new link, email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph. 

Step 3: Pay the down payment of Php 3,000.00 through the most convenient payment channels which can be accessed in this website: https://www.usc.edu.ph/updated-payment-channels. For scholars, they need to request for the endorsement letter from the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement (OAASJP) and the OAASJP will email it to assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph to bypass or override the down payment. If the applicant is unable to enroll after 2 to 3 banking days of paying the down payment, send a proof of payment to offsitecol@usc.edu.ph.

Step 4: Log in to the ISMIS portal with the website https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/ using the given username and the set password.

Step 5: In the ISMIS portal, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Student Enrollment" and proceed with either block enrollment or non-block enrollment depending on the period set during the day the enrollment module is accessed. For concerns, contact the department chair.

Step 5: Print the study load by clicking "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "View Study Load" and click the Print button. 

Step 6:  Proceed to the IRMO ID Room (either at the Downtown or Talamban Campus) for picture taking. The School ID will only be released upon the presentation of the clearance from the Office of the University Registrar. For concerns on this step, please email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph.

As soon as classes start, students are automatically enrolled in the CANVAS Learning Management System (LMS) to receive announcements and updates of the courses they are enrolled in as well as through the USC emails of the students. If there are no notifications received, you may email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph to request for an update.