Topic 11: Admission Steps for Graduate Students

The initial requirements for graduate applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Informative Copy of the Transcript of Records (TOR) with remarks of graduation 
2. Concept Paper and a Declaration of Originality to be emailed directly by the person recommending to admission-apply@usc.edu.ph. Use the template found in this link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UCZdt-Z0khwTPUPetco2URWZlDR5-fTn/edit
3. Two (2) Recommendation Letters for Master’s Program and three (3) recommendation letters for Doctorate Program. The recommendation letter should be coming from a faculty member of the previous school or previous/current direct supervisors/managers in the workplace. Use the template found in this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Apply/DownloadRecommendationForm

For Non-USC Graduates, the following additional requirements should be prepared:
1. Certificate of Transfer Credentials (Honorable Dismissal) 
2. 1 copy of 2x2 colored photo with white background
3. Original PSA/NSO certified Birth Certificate 

Below are the steps for applying as a graduate student online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for previous USC students and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.

The Concept paper is a requirement for students applying for Academic Track Programs to elicit the applicant’s ideas on the possible research topic that heor she will pursue when he or she is admitted to the program. This requirement will be evaluated by the Department Chair or Graduate Program Coordinator for feasibility and availability of experts. The concept paper will be validated during the interview with the Chair/Graduate Program Coordinator for Master Programs or a Panel of Interviewers for Doctoral Programs. Students applying for Research Track Programs will undergo a pre-admission process whereby he or she will prepare a research proposal. The applicant will pitch his or her proposal to a prospect adviser from among the identified experts or existing research groups of the department or school for acceptance. The accepted research proposal will be endorsed by the adviser to the committee for validation during the panel interview. Additional requirements may be added by the department depending upon the program applied for such as proof of funding or financial support for those who will enroll in the research track.