Topic 53: Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process

Below are the Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process for minor offenses and less serious offenses:
Step 1: The complainant submits a letter of complaint/ incident report addressed to his/her Student Discipline Mentor (SDM). 
Step 2: The student respondent, upon the summons by his/her SDM, answers within 3 days upon receipt of the complaint filed against him/her. 
Step 3: The SDMs of the complainant and respondent assess the gravity of the offense and call the student respondent for a discipline conversation. Some witnesses may be invited if needed. 
Step 4: The two SDMs after having determined the gravity of the offense committed may recommend the interventions and sanctions to be endorsed by the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO) and approved by the Head of the Office Student Formation and Activities. 
Step 5: If the case is resolved within the level of the SDMs, the student respondent signs an agreement wherein it is stated that he/she promises not to commit any infraction again.
Step 6: In instances when the case cannot be resolved at the level of the SDMs, it is elevated to the Student Discipline Mentors Committee (SDMC). The case documents are forwarded to the SDMC not more than 5 days after the whole proceeding.

Below are the Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process for serious offenses and very serious offenses:
Step 1: For cases identified outright as serious or very serious, the complainant submits a letter of complaint/ incident report addressed to the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO), who is the Chair of the SDMC. 
Step 2: The student respondent, upon the summons by the SDO, answers within 3 days upon receipt of the complaint filed against him/her. 
Step 3: The SDO informs the members of the SDMC of the date set for the case conference. The case conference is scheduled not more than 10 working days after receipt of the case documents/ complaint filed. 
Step 4: The SDMC calls the student complaint and respondent for a case conference. Some witnesses may be invited if needed. The case conference before SDMC shall be a summary in nature and cross examination is not essential. However, the SDMC should ensure that the following standards required by due process in disciplinary cases are satisfied: The respondent should have been informed in writing of the nature and cause of the accusation/s; The respondent should have been granted the right to answer the charged against her/him; The respondent should be informed of the evidences against him/her; The respondent is given the right to adduce evidence on his/ her own behalf; and the evidence should be considered by the SDMC.
Step 5: The SDMC after having determined the gravity of the offense committed may recommend the intervention and sanctions to be endorsed by the Head of the Office of Student Formation and Activities. 
Step 6: Once the intervention and sanctions have been approved, these will be enforced by the SDO. Both the complainant and respondent will be given copies of the approved intervention and sanctions. 
Step 7: In instances when the case cannot be resolved at the level of the SDMC, it is elevated to the Student Discipline Board (SDB). The case documents are forwarded to the SDB not more than 5 days after the conclusion of the whole proceeding.
The composition of the Student Discipline Mentors Committee (SDMC) includes the following: Chair of Student Discipline Officer, Student Discipline Mentor of the Complaint, Student Discipline Mentor of the Respondent, Student Representative of the Collegiate Council of the Complainant, Student Representative of the Collegiate Council of the Respondent, and Head of Office of Student Formation and Activities.