Topic 57: Student Organization Registration and Supervision

A student organization is an organized group of students sharing common interests, objectives, philosophy, and operational activities not contrary to laws, morals and University rules and regulations. Furthermore, a student organization must be non-partisan, non-political in all political exercises (within and outside the university). Such formation of student organizations is regarded by the University as a healthy sign of growing social awareness and concern and as an exercise of students’ freedom of association. This freedom, however, entails the responsibility to respect the freedom of others and to uphold the dignity of the student body as a whole. The University therefore, recognizes the student organizations as among the venues for: 
1) the development of students’ talents, potentials and capabilities; 
2) students’ greater awareness of their rights, duties and responsibilities; 
3) wholesome social and recreational activities;
4) the realization of the university’s mission statement and academic aims.

The student organizations are broadly categorized into two, namely: 
1) Co-curricular – which are school/department-based and whose membership is automatic upon enrollment in a particular course or college. 
2) Extra-curricular - which are initiated and organized by students to accommodate specific interests, concerns or visions, e.g. socio-civic, cultural, religious, athletic, professional service clubs, etc. and whose membership is voluntary.

To complement and enhance the learning process, students are allowed to initiate and organize activities which may be co-curricular or extra-curricular in nature. Schools, departments, and student organizations, in coordination with the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), manage these activities. The activities must be held within the academic calendar, and should not be scheduled a week before and during major examinations and institutional celebrations unless the activities are intrinsically related therewith.

Registration and Supervision: The Student Activities Officer shall have general supervision of all activities of registered student organizations as well as the student body. All student organizations, including the Supreme and School Student Councils, shall register or renew their registration at OSFA at the beginning of the school year, per CMO 9, series of 2013 (Article VIII, Section 21) and CMO 8, series of 2021. They shall accomplish the requirements asstated in the Student Organization Manual. Among others, the said requirements are the Constitution and/or By-laws or its equivalent, Program of Activities Form, Officers’ and Faculty Adviser’s Data Sheet, list of members and endorsements of authorized university officers or mother clubs for affiliated organizations. Upon compliance with the aforementioned requirements, student organizations shall then be entitled to official recognition by the University through OSFA.

Frequently asked questions regarding student organizations:

Many of the Officers in my organization are no longer returning. What is the process to be followed for appointing or electing officers for student organizations? Check your Constitution and By-Laws for the appointment or election procedures. If it is not feasible to follow through, the suggestion is to function with the human resources you have for as long as the goals of the organization can be met. If the goals cannot be met, the suggestion is to reduce the goals to only its most essential in carrying out the purpose of the organization. All student organizations, recognized or unrecognized by the Office of Student Affairs, are recognized by USC-SSC with no rigorous requirements through the Conglomeration of Student Organizations (CSO). You will be assisted as soon as organization-related problems are present and noticed. You may ask for assistance from USC-SSC for meeting the goals of your organization. 

How can student organizations collect funds? For Co-curricular Organizations, you may request for your fees to be included in the collection reflected on ISMIS through your Department. For Extracurricular Organizations, you may employ your prefered method of collection. For School Councils, upon coordination with the Dean, you have access to fees that may already be included in the semestral fees of the students (e.g. for SAS Council, previously "SAS Program Activities Fee"). The suggestion is to first plan out your Calendar of Activities and then determine the most considerate budget possible as to not burden the students with more fees.	