USC stands for University of San Carlos.
SVD stands for Society of the Divine Word.
PAASCU stands for Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities.
PTC-ACBET stands for Philippine Technological Council-Accreditation and Certification Board for Engineering and Technology.
CHED stands for Commission on Higher Education.
COE stands for Center of Excellence.
COD stands for Center of Development.
QS stands for Quacquarelli Symonds.
IPQA stands for Institutional Planning and Quality Assurance.
PAMS stands for Office of the Presidential Assistant for Mission and Spirituality.
OVPAA stands for Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.
RDEPO stands for Research, Development, Extension and Publications Office.
ERIO stands for External Relations and Internationalization Office.
CES stands for Community Extension Services.
NSTP stands for National Service Training Program.
VPAd stands for Vice President for Administration.
IRMO stands for Information Resources Management Office.
SASO stands for Student Affairs and Services Office.
OAP stands for Office of Administrator of Properties.
DPO stands for Data Privacy Office.
HRMO stands for Human Resource Management Office.
OAASJP stands for Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarship and Job Placement.
ONES stands for Office of Naming Rights, Endowments and Scholarships.
OSFA stands for Office of Student Formation and Activities.
CDC stands for Counselling and Development Center.
HSO stands for Health Services Office.
PAG stands for Performing Arts Group.
ARC stands for Athletics and Recreation Center.
PPFO stands for Physical Plant and Facilities Office.
VPF stands for Vice President for Finance.
SAFAD stands for School of Architecture, Fine Arts, and Design.
SAS stands for School of Arts and Sciences.
SBE stands for School of Business and Economics.
SOE stands for School of Engineering.
SHCP stands for School of Healthcare Professions.
SOE stands for School of Engineering.
SLG stands for School of Law and Governance.
BED stands for Basic Education.
DASH stands for Department of Anthropology, Sociology, and History.
DCISM stands for Department of Computer, Information Sciences, and Mathematics.
DCLL stands for Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature.
DCPE stands for Department of Computer Engineering.
DEEE stands for Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering.
ORA stands for University Office of Recruitment and Admissions.
CAE stands for College Admission Examinations.
HCCH stands for Hague Conference on Private International Law.
CTC stands for Certificate of Transfer Credentials.
NBCR stands for Native Born Certificate of Registration.
ACR stands for Alien Certificate of Registration.
SSP stands for Special Study Permit .
PHS stands for Personal History Statement.
ISMIS stands for Integrated School Management Information System.
TOR stands for Transcript of Records.
MAR stands for Maximum Allowable Residency.
EDM stands for Education with a Mission.
TPE stands for Physical Education.
GPA stands for Grade Point Average.
CWTS stands for Civic Welfare Training Service.
LTS stands for Literacy Training Service.
ROTC stands for Reserve Officers Training Corps.
INC stands for Incomplete.
NC stands for No credit.
CHL stands for Carolinian Honor's List.
CLG stands for Carolinian Lifestyle Guide.
SSC stands for Supreme Student Council.
AGC stands for Awards and Graduation Committee.
PWD stands for Persons with Disabilities.
SDM stands for Student Development Mentors.
SDEVCOM stands for Student Development Committee.
SDO stands for Student Discipline Officer.
SDC stands for Student Discipline Committee.


TOPIC 1: Description

University of San Carlos (USC) is a Catholic educational institution administered since 1935 by Society of the Divine Word (SVD) missionaries. A University since 1948, USC offers the complete educational package from kindergarten, including a Montessori academy, to graduate school. Learn more about Education with a Mission and how we become Witness to the Word. USC is also referred here as University. 

Rapid growth in the ‘50s saturated the campus near the city center prompting expansion of the University to what was then called the Boys’ High School in 1956 (now North Campus), and in 1964 to the Teacher Education Center and Girls’ High School (now South Campus) and to Talamban Campus. In 2008, the erstwhile SVD Formation Center was transformed into the Montessori Campus. Currently, The University has five campuses. 

The University is one of the most respected higher education institutions in the Philippines. Programs offered have received either Level II or Level III accreditation from the Federation of Accrediting Associations of the Philippines (FAAP), as evaluated by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities (PAASCU). Seven engineering programs are also accredited by the Philippine Technological Council-Accreditation and Certification Board for Engineering and Technology (PTC-ACBET). The Philippine Commission on Higher Education (CHED) also granted Autonomous Status to the University, and designated eight (8) Centers of Excellence (COEs) and twelve (12) Centers of Development (CODs) in USC. USC ranked between 451 to 500 in the QS University Rankings for Asia 2021 and number 7 among the 100 best universities in the Philippines in 2023 per EduRank. The latter ranking is based on research outputs, non-academic prominence, non academic performance and alumni influence. In 2023, USC is among the five universities in the Philippines that have been included in the world ranking by the United Kingdom-based Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) under the 1201-1400 bracket.

Recognized as a research hub in the southern Philippines, USC has drawn in external grants amounting to PHP298M (~USD5.68M) between AY 2018-2021, including the two pandemic-affected years. Internal research grants of over PHP11M have also been awarded from internal funding within the same time period. Research efforts are supported by a print collection of over 200,000 titles and almost 10,000 non-print volumes housed in the University’s Library System, along with subscriptions to Web of Science and Science Direct. USC also publishes three scholarly journals, The Philippine Scientist, the Philippine Quarterly of Culture and Society, and Devotio: Journal of Business and Economic Studies. Additional support for researchers are available through offices or committees providing ethics review, intellectual property and innovation and technology support, and animal care and use. Nineteen patents have been filed by the University since 2012, and one start-up company, Green Enviro Management Systems (GEMS), Inc., has been established. 

Student support in the University includes an international students’ office, online enrolment, dormitories, numerous cafes and canteens, and a transport system within Talamban Campus. USC has more than 600 undergraduate and graduate scholars at any given time. Since 2014, USC has been designated as a Donee Institution by the Philippine Council of Non-Governmental Organization Certification (PCNC).


TOPIC 2: Catholic Identity, Vision, Mission, and Core Values

The University's Catholic identity is embodied in two statements, Education with a Mission and Witness to the Word. USC aims at the holistic formation of the individual that enlightens the mind, hones skills, and positively transforms character and behavior (from Dialogue with the Word, SVD Education Ministry as Mission of Dialogue, 2010, 103–104). Every Carolinian becomes a catalyst towardsthe realization of the kingdom of God, promoting truth, love, justice, freedom, peace, and grace. Carolinians in society have a sense of mission recognizable by their contribution as the "light", "salt", and "yeast" of the Gospel. Graduates of USC are professionally competent and skilled (Scientia), have noble character and are value-driven (Virtus), and are dedicated to social transformation (Devotio).

The Vision Statement of USC is as follows:

"The University of San Carlos sees: 
- a WORLD where the darkness of sin and the night of unbelief vanish before the light of the Word and the Spirit of grace
- a SOCIETY where citizens are competent, noble in character, and community-oriented; what they know, they apply justly and honestly; what they do not know, they seek to learn; what they do not have, they endeavor to acquire; what they have, they share."

The Mission Statement of USC is as follows:

"The University of San Carlos is a Catholic institution of learning that embodies the principles of academic discipline of San Carlos Borromeo and the missionary charism of the Society of the Divine Word (SVD). 
It aims to develop competent and socially responsible professionals and lifelong learners in an environment that fosters excellence in the academic core processes of teaching-learning, research, and community extension service. 
Its mission is to provide timely, relevant, and transformative academic programs responsive to the needs of the local, national, and global communities in a rapidly changing world."

CORE VALUES 

The University Core Values are: Integrity; Excellence; Commitment; Social responsibility; Evangelization; and Leadership, defined as follows: 

Core value 1: Integrity
Carolinians shall reflect in their personal and professional life the ideals of the Catholic university as "an academic community, which, in a rigorous and critical fashion, assists in the protection and advancement of human dignity and of a cultural heritage through research, teaching and extension services to the local, national and international communities" (Apostolic Exhortation Ex Conde Ecclesiae, 1990)

Core value 2: Excellence
Carolinians shall constantly strive to attain the highest standards in their respective fields. 

Core value 3: Commitment
Carolinians shall bear in mind that the ultimate goal of the University is the transformation of communities, especially in the Visayas and Mindanao, through the provision of quality basic and higher education. 

Core value 4: Social Responsibility
Carolinians shall strive to provide themselves and the students an understanding of and effective tools for addressing the prevailing social realities in the country. As far as possible, they shall volunteer their expertise and contribute to effective social and civic programs in the local community, through initiatives organized by themselves, their respective departments and relevant external organizations.

Core value 5: Evangelization
Carolinians shall seek to understand the values and mores of local cultures and enrich them through gospel values and the teachings of the Church. In a privileged manner, they shall, in solidarity with the Philippines Southern Province of the Society of Divine Word, support the missionary apostolate in the Visayas and Mindanao.

Core value 6: Leadership
Carolinians, not only in positions of authority but also in their own personal capacity, shall strive to set the conditions for reflection and learning on their respective educational tasks, both in their departments and in the local community, foster norms of behavior befitting a Witness to the Word and exhibit these norms in their own way of life.


Topic 3: The University Seal

The University seal is the official insignia of the University of San Carlos. It depicts a shield on either side by seven laurel leaves. The laurel leaves stand for excellence, and each one symbolizes a gift of the Holy Spirit: wisdom, understanding, counsel, fortitude, knowledge, piety, and fear of the Lord. 

The shield is divided into three parts. On the upper left of the shield is a globe encircled and topped by a cross. This is the symbol of the SVD in the world. 

On the upper right part of the shield is Magellan’s Cross, which symbolizes Cebu City, where USC is located. 

On the bottom half of the shield is an open book, which symbolizes knowledge, education, and the Word of God. Above the book are three starts that represent the three major island groups of the Philippines: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.


Topic 4: History

The University of San Carlos, administered by the Divine Word Missionaries of the SVD, is a university with a very long history that parallels the growth and development of Cebu in central Philippines. The University of San Carlos is historically linked to a small colegio established in honor of San Ildefonso by the Jesuit priests Antonio Sedeño, Alonso de Humanes, Mateo Sanchez, and a lay brother Gaspar Garay on 21 August 1595. The Colegio de San Ildefonso was closed in 1769 because of the papal expulsion of the Jesuits from Spain and all Spanish possessions in 1767.

Ten years later, in 1779, the ownership of the colegio and its propertieswas transferred to the Bishop of Cebu, Msgr. Rubio de Arevalo. Hepaved the way for its re-establishment as the Real Seminario de San Carlos, manned by secular priests. Following the decision of the Bishop of Cebu, Msgr. Romualdo Jimeno, the Dominicans took over as regents. In 1852, the Dominican priests renamed the school Seminario Conciliar de San Carlos.

When the Vincentians took over in 1867, the school offered classes to interns (seminarians) and externs (non-seminarians) to accommodate the local residents’ petition. Thus, it became Seminario-Colegio de San Carlos. In 1894, the Seminario-Colegio de San Carlos conferred the Bachelor’s degree to its first graduates; among them was Sergio Osmeña, later the fourth president of the Philippines from 1944-1946.

At the outbreak of the Filipino Revolution against Spain in 1898, the school closed and later re-opened when American rule began. In 1911, the school was incorporated as Colegio de San Carlos under rector Jacinto Villalain. By 1922, the school was separated from the seminary although it operated on the same campus along Calle Martires (now M. J. Cuenco Avenue). In 1930, the Colegio de San Carlos transferred to its present site along P. del Rosario Street.

In 1935, the Colegio de San Carlos was placed under the German religious order Societas Verbi Divini (SVD). Between 1935 and 1940, the SVD priests and brothers changed Colegio de San Carlos into a truly secular college with the addition of two new colleges aside from the existing College of Liberal Arts: Law and Commerce. The College of Education followed in 1938 and the College of Engineering in 1939.

The Colegio would have been a university, were it not for World War II. Instead, the war brought the Colegio to its knees, leaving its building in ruins with many of its priests and lay killed in the run-up to Liberation. Undaunted, the Colegio was re-opened in June 1945 by Father Josef Jaschik and Father Ernest Hoerdemann. Father Arthur Dingman, the first SVD rector, returned and appointed Father Hoerdemann to oversee a ten-year reconstruction plan, 1947-1957. In 1947, the College of Pharmacy was added.

On 1 July 1948, the Colegio was granted university status by the government. The new University of San Carlos became a university in the real sense of the word with a steady trickle of priest-scholars who left Fu Jen Catholic University of Beijing, China due to the communist take-over. Their research activities in the fields of biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, anthropology, and archaeology raised the status of the University to a research institution.

In 1956, a new campus for boys was opened along Gen. Maxilom Avenue (presently, the North Campus). In 1962, another campus for grade school boys and girls, for high school girls, and for teachers-to-be was also inaugurated on J. Alcantara Street (now called South Campus).

In 1957, the University became one of the 11 (eleven) charter members of the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities (PAASCU) after being judged worthy of accreditation by a separate committee formed by the Catholic Educational Association of the Philippines (CEAP).

With foresight, the University administrators opened yet another campus in Talamban in 1963 with the construction of the first and only Coconut Chemical Plant in the country, a joint project of the German and Philippine governments. The Talamban campus, home of the College of Engineering and Architecture, became known as the Technological Center by 1965.

The Talamban venture proved fortuitous as the congestion in downtown Cebu prodded the University to develop the nearly 80 hectares of open space into a modern campus. These edifices rose and their curricular programs and service support grew dynamically: 
- Arnoldus Science Building and Talamban Campus Dormitories (1981)
- Retreat and Seminar House (1982)
- Anselmo Bustos Multi-Purpose Hall (1983), Church of Talamban (1985) later dedicated as the Church of St. Arnold and St. Joseph
- Science and Mathematics Education Building which is an annex edifice to the Arnoldus Science Building (1997)
- Maintenance and Calibration Workshop (1998)
- Arts and Sciences Building (1999) later named as Philip van Engelen Building, Health Sciences Building for the College of Nursing and the College of Pharmacy (2004)
- General Services Building and the College of Architecture and Fine Arts Building (2005)
- Engineering Conference Center later named as the Michael Richartz Building (2008)
- Executive House (2008)
- covered courts (2012)
- new dormitories (2012)
- Josef Baumgartner Learning Resource Center (2012)

Currently, the campus is undergoing massive landscaping and face-lifting to enhance the academic environment.

The Downtown Campus has also been going through massive infrastructure development. The Arts Division of the College of Arts and Sciences transferred to Talamban Campus in 2009. Since then, the following structures have been constructed: Law and Graduate Business Building (2009), Wrocklage Yard (2010), Carolinian Inn (2011), Kolk’s Nook (2011), and Language Academy (2013).

In more than 75 years of administration by the Societas Verbi Divini (SVD), the University has become a nationally-recognized institution of higher education. The University’s science and technology programs and administrative apparatus were boosted with the Netherlands’ royal government award of a nine-year joint co-financing program under NUFFIC from 1995 to 2004. Since 2001, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) has awarded full autonomy status to the University in apt recognition of its more than 100 academic and curricular programs.

Likewise, PAASCU has conferred a Level III accreditation status on several programs. In the national board and bar examinations, the University is consistent in producing topnotchers. The number of topnotchers in government licensure examinations in Accountancy, Architecture, Chemistry, Education, Engineering, Interior Design, Law, Library Science, and Pharmacy continues to grow each year.

In research, aside from its in-house fund, the University is consistently the recipient of major research grants from local and international external agencies. The Commission on Higher Education, the Department of Science and Technology, and to a minor extent, the private industry, have funded some research projects. Two University-generated inventions have patent applications filed in 2011 in the IPOPhl. For research performance in culture and literature, the University’s Cebuano Studies Center was awarded the Region VII Winner for CHED Best Higher Education Research Program in 2009.

The University of San Carlos has taken the lead in central Philippines in embracing the Philippine Educational Reform Agenda: the institution of the K to 12 basic education system, the possible differentiation of higher educational institutions into five types, and the divergence of accreditation programs into those that are national and international.


Topic 5: University Saints

The three university saints are San Carlos Borromeo (1538-1584), St. Arnold Janssen (1837-1909), St. Joseph Freinademetz (1852-1908).

SAN CARLOS BORROMEO (1538-1584) 

Although USC is owned and managed by the Society of Divine Word (SVD), its name is carved after a saint who was not a member of this religious congregation. St. Charles Borromeo, whose feast falls on November 4, was born to a noble family which had produced, among others, such persons as Pope Pius IV, during whose leadership Charles became the first Cardinal of Romagna and then, at twenty-two, the Archbishop of Milan. He was an influential churchman in his time, facilitating the final deliberations of the Council of Trent and taking a large share in the drafting of the Tridentine Catechism. He bravely attended to the sick and the dead victims of the plague, sparing no expense and avoiding no danger in an effort to assist the poor. He played a major role against the reformation movement. Most relevant for this biographical sketch is his series of activities toward reform of the collegiate churches, seminaries, colleges, and communities for the education, especially of candidates for holy orders. At present, many Catholic schools and parishes all over the world are named after him, including the Seminario Mayor de San Carlos in Cebu, Philippines. This makes him a Patron of Seminaries, the reason why his name was adopted when the diocese took over the school for clerical candidates in 1783. The Colegio used to be attached to the Seminario, but legal considerations necessitated that it became an autonomous entity, a secular school from which evolved the University of San Carlos. St. Charles Borromeo is rightly venerated as a saint of learning and the arts, a reformist whose opinion was sought by both sovereign and pope.

ST. ARNOLD JANSSEN (1837-1909) 

St. Arnold Janssen (1837-1909) is the founder of the Society which now owns and manages the University of San Carlos, the Society of Divine Word (SVD), a missionary congregation of more than 6,000 brothers and priests spread all over the world, which is now the fastest growing religious male congregation in the Catholic Church. Unlike San Carlos Borromeo, St. Arnold Janssen came from a simple family of eleven children in the village of Goch in the Rhineland, Germany, not far from the Dutch border. Intellectually-endowed and keen on science and theology, he went through the usual formation of a priest.

As a young priest, he became a school teacher of the natural sciences and mathematics in Bocholt and, as a devotee to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, he was named Diocesan Director for the Apostleship of Prayer. This devotion likewise inspired him to engage in media work as a form of missionary activity, especially through the circulation of a devotional magazine, The Little Messenger of the Sacred Heart. St. ArnoldJanssen is what one might call an accidental religious founder, imbued with a vision and forced by circumstances to undertake the foundation of a missionary congregation out of obedience to his Bishop, during the difficult days of the Kulturkampf in 1875. He knew that the whole project would collapse without God’s blessings. From zero, the congregation grew to its present size like the proverbial mustard seed. 

Today, the SVD missionary world is divided into 4 zones: Asia-Pacific (ASPAC), Africa-Madagascar (AFRAM), America (PANAM) and Europe (EUROPA). In his lifetime, too, St. Arnold became providentially the founder of two congregations of missionary sisters: the Sisters of the Holy Spirit (SSpS), fondly called the Blue Sisters, and the contemplative Sisters of the Holy Spirit of Perpetual Adoration (SSpSAP), better known as the Pink Sisters. The first missionaries were sent by the Founder to China and the last missionaries, he commissioned to the Philippines, setting foot in Abra in 1909, just before he breathed his last. St. Arnold Janssen is a model not only of a missionary but also of a leader or what is now called a manager or corporate executive officer. Definitely, he was ahead of his time in his use of communication and media; he was truly a holy and dialogical founder, leader, and father.

ST. JOSEPH FREINADEMETZ (1852-1908) 

St. Joseph Freinademetz (1852-1908) was one of the first two missionaries sent outside of Germany. In fact, it was his desire to do a mission in China that attracted the young priest to go to Steyl. Fr. Joseph was born in Oies, a small hamlet in the Dolomite Alps of northern Italy, in the region known as South Tyrol, which was then part of the Austro-Hungarian empire. While studying Theology at the diocesan seminary of Brixen, he began to think seriously of foreign missions as a way of life.

As a young priest of only three years, who had already won the hearts of his parishioners, he asked permission from his Bishop to join the missionary community in Steyl, Holland. After some years of rigorous formation, on 2 March 1879, he received the mission Cross and, together with Fr. Anzer departed Europe for China. Fr. Joseph Freinademetz was a missionary par excellence. The years in South Shantung were hard years, marked by long, arduous journeys, assaults by bandits, and the difficult work of forming the first Christian communities. He learned the lesson of enculturation the hard way and became a true model of a Witness to the Word.

A missionary with a traditional outlook, when he first set foot on China, he thought of himself as imbued with a call to convert people to his religion; he soon discovered that mission was actually a humbling experience of self conversion. His whole life became an effort to become a Chinese among Chinese, so much so that his words are still heard today: "I love China and the Chinese. I want to die among them and be laid to rest among them." He is reputed to have expressed the desire "to be a Chinese even in heaven." Together with the Founder, Fr. Arnold Janssen, he was beatified by Pope Paul VI on 19 October 1975 and canonized by Pope John Paul II on 5 October 2003.


Topic 6: USC Organizational Structure

The University of San Carlos (USC) is a non-stock, non-profit Catholic educational institution. It is governed by a ten-member Board of Trustees which is vested with the corporate powers by law. The Board elects the President, who as the chief executive officer, appoints the Vice Presidents, Chaplain, Deans, Registrar, Principals, and other officers. 

In the exercise of his duties and powers, the President is assisted by three vice presidents: the Vice President for Academic Affairs, the Vice President for Administration, the Vice President for Finance. The President is also assisted by Assistant Vice Presidents, when needed. They constitute the President’s Cabinet. 

Attached to the Office of the President is the Cabinet and the following offices: the University Chaplain, the Legal Counsel, the Institutional Planning and Quality Assurance (IPQA), the Knowledge, Technology and Transfer Office (KTTO), the Corporate Communications Office, the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Mission and Spirituality (PAMS), and Internal Audit Office. 

The Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (OVPAA), headed by the Vice President for Academic Affairs, exercises jurisdiction over the University Academic Council and its Committees, Deans and Chairs, Office of the University Registrar, Research, Development, Extension and Publications Office (RDEPO), External Relations and Internationalization Office (ERIO), Community Extension Services (CES), Library System, National Service Training Program (NSTP), and USC Publishing House. The OVPAA closely coordinates with the Human Resources Management Office for concerns regarding academic ranking, classification, and promotions, and the Instructional Development Unit for faculty in-service programs.

The Vice President for Administration (VPAd) is the chief administrative officer of the University. The VPAd exercises jurisdiction over the Advancement Office, Information Resources Management Office (IRMO), Student Affairs and Services Office (SASO), Office of Administrator of Properties (OAP), Data Privacy Office (DPO), Office of Security and Safety, and Human Resource Management Office (HRMO). 

The Advancement Office is composed of the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarship and Job Placement Office (OAASJ), Office of Naming Rights, Endowments and Scholarships (ONES), and Semper Fidelis. IRMO is composed of Administrative Computing Services and Technical Networking Services and Help Desk Offices. 

The Student Affairs and Services Office is composed of the following: Counselling and Development Center (CDC), Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), Health Services Office (HSO), Performing Arts Group (PAG), Dormitory; and Athletics and Recreation Center (ARC). 

The Office of Administrators and Properties is composed of Physical Plant and Facilities Office (PPFO), Facilities Office, Maintenance Office, and Utilities Office. 

The Vice President for Finance (VPF) is the chief financial officer of the University. He exercises jurisdiction over the Comptroller, Treasurer, and Head of the Budget and Purchasing Department. The Comptroller supervises the Accounting and Payroll Offices, while the Treasurer supervises the cash and fund officers.

The departments under the School of Architecture, Fine Arts, and Design (SAFAD) are Department of Architecture and Department of Fine Arts. 

The departments under the School of Arts and Sciences (SAS) are Department of Anthropology, Sociology, and History (DASH), Department of Biology, Department of Chemistry, Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature (DCLL), Department of Computer, Information Sciences, and Mathematics (DCISM), Department of Philosophy, Department of Physics, and Department of Psychology. 

The departments under the School of Business of Economics (SBE) are Department of Accountancy, Department of Business Administration, Department of Economics, and Department of Hospitality Management. 

The department under the School of Education (SED) is Department of Teacher Education. 

The departments under the School of Healthcare Professions (SHCP) are Department of Nursing, Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, and Department of Pharmacy. 

The departments under the School of Engineering (SOE) are Department of Chemical Engineering (DChE), Department of Civil Engineering (DCE), Department of Computer Engineering (DCpE), Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (DEEE), Department of Industrial Engineering (DIE), and Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (DMME). 

The departments under the School of Law and Governance (SLG) are College of Law and Department of Political Science. 

The subdepartments under the Basic Education Department (BED) are Lower Basic Education, Montessori Academy, and Senior High School.


Topic 7: Admission

The academic admission requirements are dependent on the status of the applicant student, the program he/she wishes to enroll in, and the requirements set by the different schools/departments. Program-specific requirements may be obtained from the respective school/department or the University Office of Recruitment and Admissions (ORA). The University reserves the right to refuse the admission of any applicant whose qualifications do not meet the standards and requirements of the program and/or of the School/Department. Likewise, the University may refuse the admission of an applicant who has made an intentional misrepresentation/misdeclaration or falsification of submitted documents. Students graduating from senior high school who want to enroll in the University as well as tertiary students who want to transfer to the University must take the College Admission Examinations (CAE).

Policy of Inclusion 

The University adopts, as a matter of policy, inclusive education. In accordance with the UNESCO Policy Guidelines, it supports and welcomes diversity amongst all learners from ethnic and linguistic minorities, rural populations, those affected by HIV and AIDS, and those with disabilities and difficulties in learning by providing equitable access to learning and opportunities to harness their potential as Lifelong Learners. The University commits to eliminating exclusion that is a consequence of negative attitudes and a lack of appropriate University response to diversity in gender, sexual orientation, race, economic status, social class, ethnicity, language, religion, and ability.

Requirements

To take the qualifying examinations, the following are required: 
- three (3) copies of 2x2 ID pictures (colored with white background)
- pencil
- testing fee (may vary depending on the program

Note: Transferees must first secure a clearance from the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) before proceeding with the admissions process. They must present a Certificate of Good Moral Character from the school they last attended during the interview at the OSFA.

To qualify for Admission to a particular Curricular Program, the following are the initial requirements:

Senior High School Graduates (New First Years):
- Passing FINAL GRADE in all senior high school subjects (certain programs require specific cut-off grades)
- Passing mark in the qualifying examinations
- Compliance to supplemental requirements which may be prescribed by authorized offices/academic units, where applicable
- Interview with the Department Chair

Senior High School Academic Strands
- Applicant students may be allowed to enroll in an academic program outside of his/her academic strands subject to the school/department policy on the taking of bridging courses.

Transferees: Transferees are undergraduate students who wish to enroll in a bachelor’s program at the University of San Carlos after having been enrolled in a college course from another institution. They must start their enrollment at the University no later than the third year of a four-year curriculum or fourth year of a five-year curriculum.
- Certificate of Transfer Credentials 
- Evaluative Copy of the Transcript of Records 
- Passing mark in the qualifying examinations 
- Compliance to supplemental requirements which may be prescribed by authorized offices/academic units, where applicable 
- Interview with the Department Chair.

For the complete admission process, the student is directed to the University Enrollment Guide website and/or the official social media page.


Topic 8: Admission Steps for Freshmen

The initial requirements for new freshmen applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Grade 12 grades duly certified/signed by the School Registrar/Principal. If the student is currently enrolled, at least the first semester grades should be present. 
2. School ID (A Certificate of Eligibility is required should there be no available school ID, download the certificate by going to this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Apply/DownloadCERT)
3. 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background
4. Diploma in Senior High School (if by the time of application, the applicant graduated already in Grade 12, duly signed and authenticated by the School Registrar/Principal, a Declaration Form as a New Student should be signed and submitted). 

Below are the steps for applying as a new freshmen online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for USC senior high school graduates and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.


Topic 9: Admission Steps for International Students

An international student refers to an applicant who undertakes all or part of his/her higher education experience in a country other than his/her home country or an applicant who travels across a national boundary to a country other than his/her home country to undertake all or part of his/her higher education experience.

A student with an international passport or has dual citizenship, or is a Filipino graduate abroad, needs to go through pre-admission process with the External Relations and Internationalization Office (ERIO). The applicant needs to submit additional documents during the admission process before the applicant can proceed with the enrollment process.

The first part is pre-admission, which involves uploading your admission requirements in ISMIS. Go to the International Student Portal through https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/ApplyForeign. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file. Complete the Captcha and click the "Submit button". ERIO will verify the pre-admission documents and endorse the applicant to the Office of the University Registrar. The Office of the University Registrar will verify the application and endorse the applicant for admission to the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions (ORA).

The required documents for Undergraduate Program Freshmen International Applicants are:
- Transcript of Records (1st and 2nd semesters of Grade 11 and Grade 12) for Bachelor’s Program (IGCSE/GCSE with A-Levels may also be considered)
- Diploma/Certificate of graduation in Grade 12 (Senior High School)
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page with at least two-year validity
- English Proficiency Requirement with a rating in 6.0 in IELTS or at least 60 for TOEFL or as prescribed by the program. Applicants, who graduated from schools that used English as a medium of instruction are required to submit a certificate issued by the head of the institution or its legal representative.
- Proof of Philippine Citizenship for Dual Citizen Applicants such as Philippine Passport, Identification Certificate (IC), or Certificate of Reacquisition/Retention of Philippine Citizenship (CRPC).

The required documents for Masteral and Doctoral Program International Applicants are:
- Baccalaureate Diploma or its equivalent with remarks of graduation
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page with at least two-year validity
- English Proficiency Requirement with a rating in 6.0 in IELTS or at least 60 for TOEFL or as prescribed by the program. Applicants, who graduated from schools that used English as a medium of instruction are required to submit a certificate issued by the head of the institution or its legal representative.
- Proof of Philippine Citizenship for Dual Citizen Applicants such as Philippine Passport, Identification Certificate (IC), or Certificate of Reacquisition/Retention of Philippine Citizenship (CRPC).

Once the admission requirements are validated by ORA, the applicant will now be endorsed for the College Admission Examination for undergraduate applicants, Department Chair for interview and acceptance for Juris Doctor applicants and Masteral Program applicants, or panel interview and acceptance for Doctoral Program applicants. Once accepted by the Department Chairman, the applicant needs to go back to ERIO for the enrollment clearance slip before the applicant will proceed to the Office of the University Registrar for the submission of authenticated documents.


Topic 10: Admission Steps for Transferee

The initial requirements for transferee applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Certificate of Transfer Credentials/Honorable Dismissal
2. Transcript of Records (Informative Copy)
3. 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background
4. Certificate of Good Moral Character (from the previous school attended)
5. Clearance from the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) of the University of San Carlos Downtown Campus.

Below are the steps for applying as a transferee online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for previous USC students and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.


Topic 11: Admission Steps for Graduate Students

The initial requirements for graduate applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Informative Copy of the Transcript of Records (TOR) with remarks of graduation 
2. Concept Paper and a Declaration of Originality to be emailed directly by the person recommending to admission-apply@usc.edu.ph. Use the template found in this link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UCZdt-Z0khwTPUPetco2URWZlDR5-fTn/edit
3. Two (2) Recommendation Letters for Master’s Program and three (3) recommendation letters for Doctorate Program. The recommendation letter should be coming from a faculty member of the previous school or previous/current direct supervisors/managers in the workplace. Use the template found in this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Apply/DownloadRecommendationForm

For Non-USC Graduates, the following additional requirements should be prepared:
1. Certificate of Transfer Credentials (Honorable Dismissal) 
2. 1 copy of 2x2 colored photo with white background
3. Original PSA/NSO certified Birth Certificate 

Below are the steps for applying as a graduate student online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for previous USC students and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.

The Concept paper is a requirement for students applying for Academic Track Programs to elicit the applicant’s ideas on the possible research topic that heor she will pursue when he or she is admitted to the program. This requirement will be evaluated by the Department Chair or Graduate Program Coordinator for feasibility and availability of experts. The concept paper will be validated during the interview with the Chair/Graduate Program Coordinator for Master Programs or a Panel of Interviewers for Doctoral Programs. Students applying for Research Track Programs will undergo a pre-admission process whereby he or she will prepare a research proposal. The applicant will pitch his or her proposal to a prospect adviser from among the identified experts or existing research groups of the department or school for acceptance. The accepted research proposal will be endorsed by the adviser to the committee for validation during the panel interview. Additional requirements may be added by the department depending upon the program applied for such as proof of funding or financial support for those who will enroll in the research track.


Topic 12: Admission Steps for Juris Doctor

The initial requirements for Juris Doctor applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Transcript of Records (TOR) with remarks of graduation 
2. Certificate of Transfer Credentials/Honorable Dismissal (for Non-USC graduates) 
3. Certificate of Good Moral Character (for Non-USC graduates) 
4. Personal Statement in not more than 1,000 words that will enable the Dean’s Office to get to know the applicant and assess his or her readiness to enroll in the law program. The Personal Statement template can be downloaded using the link https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Apply/DownloadPersonnalStatementTemplate and shall be submitted in Microsoft Word format and shall indicate the applicant’s desired law program with or without thesis. It shall likewise be accompanied with a Statement of Originality and Sole Authorship (not to be included in the word count). The Statement of Originality and Sole Authorship is the applicant’s solemn attestation to the Dean’s Office that the Personal Statement is his or her own work and may be added after the Personal Statement. 
5. Optional Submission: In addition to the Personal Statement, the applicant may submit any of the following to enable the Dean to get to know the applicant more: academic essay of not more than 1,000 words on how he or she responded to the Covid-19 pandemic, or, a 90-second video on any topic the applicant may wish to expound on. 

Applicants who are USC graduates but have transferred to another higher education institution prior to applying for the JD program are considered transferees and must submit requirements 2 and 3.

Below are the steps for applying as a juris doctor online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for previous USC students and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.


Topic 13: College Entrance Examination

The College Admission Examination (CAE) fee is P600.00 for BS Architecture, BS Landscape Architecture and BS Interior Design, and P500.00 for the rest of the tertiary programs. Below are the guidelines on how to pay the College Admission Examination (CAE) Fees online, which can be done in two ways, PayMaya and DragonPay.

For PayMaya, payments made using this channel are posted real-time. Refer to the steps below to pay using PayMaya.
1. Go to the payment module of ISMIS by accessing this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Paymaya/firstindex 
2. Click PayMaya 
3. Provide the needed applicant information. Name should be consistent with ISMIS including the space in between the First Name.
4. Choose the Payment Item - under Testing Fees, kindly type the amount depending on the program applied.
5. Proceed to check out. Choose the Payment Channel. It will route the applicant to the PayMaya Website.
6. Type in your payment details and submit. After submitting, it will generate an e-receipt. 

For Dragonpay, depending on the payment channel, normally it will take 2 to 3 banking days before the payment will be posted. Refer to the steps below to pay with DragonPay.
1. Go to the payment module of ISMIS by accessing this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Paymaya/firstindex 
2. Click Dragonpay 
3. Provide the needed applicant information. Name should be consistent with ISMIS including the space in between the First Name. 
4. Choose the Payment Item - under Testing Fees, kindly type the amount depending on the program applied. 
5. Proceed to check out. It will route the applicant to the Dragonpay Website 
6. Choose the payment channel and click notify thru email. 
7. Follow the Reference Code and the payment instructions sent to your email. For online transactions, click the link provided and you will be redirected to your chosen online payment link. For over the counter transactions such as Cebuano Lhuillier, the Biller will be Dragonpay and not University of San Carlos, and the Reference Number will be the Reference Code.

For concerns regarding the process or status of offsite payments offsitecol@usc.edu.ph.

For those who will pay in-campus via the USC Teller, kindly show the ISMIS notification on how to pay the College Admission Examinations and pay the testing fee 

After payment, kindly proceed to the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions (ORA) at the Downtown Campus and show the receipt or email the receipt to admissions-apply@usc.edu.ph so that applicant can choose a schedule of their College Admission Examination. 
admissions-apply@usc.edu.ph so that the applicant will receive a google form link where the
 For concerns on the above requirements, guidelines and process, please email offsitecol@usc.edu.ph or call (032) 401-2300 local 173 or (032) 2300-100 local 173 or call or text the Treasury
 Office at +639088866790.

Below are the guidelines on scheduling and taking the College Admission Examination which is only done in campus.
1. Once admission requirements are verified, the applicant will receive an email instruction from ISMIS on how to pay the testing fee online via payment centers or offline at the USC Teller.
2. Once payment is received (usually after 2 to 3 banking days for online payment) the applicant will receive a Google Form link to schedule the College Admission Examination. 
3. Once the applicant has chosen the date for the College Admission Examination, an Examination Permit will be generated.
4. The applicant must present a printed copy of the examination permit on the day of their scheduled examination and this will serve as their entry pass to the Testing Center, USC Downtown Campus. Examination results will be available 2 days from the examination date. 
5. Once results are available, the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions will now endorse the applicant to the Department Chair for review and acceptance. 

Once the exam results are accepted by the Department Chair, then the enrollment process will commence at this stage. If advise to take another program, the applicant will be redirected to the Testing Center, USC Downtown Campus if there is any additional test to be taken and then to the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions for re-endorsement of the application to the Department Chair.


Topic 14: Post-Admission Enrollment Requirements

Here are the documents that newly accepted applicants need to prepare after admission before proceeding to enrollment:

For senior high school graduates or new first years, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment and submit to the Office of the Registrar:
- Original Form 138 (Senior High School Card - Grade 12) duly signed/certified by the Principal/School Registrar as eligible for college, or the ALS A&E Certificate of Rating and other eligibilitydocuments recognized by DepEd and CHED.
- Original Copy of Birth Certificate from National Statistics Office (NSO)/ Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA)
- 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background 
- Accomplished Student’s Personal Data Sheet (online through ISMIS)

For transferees, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment and submit to the Office of the Registrar:
- Certificate of Transfer Credentials (Honorable Dismissal)
- Informative Copy of Transcript of Records (TOR)
- Original Copy of Birth Certificate from National Statistics Office (NSO)/Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA)
- 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background 
- Accomplished Course Accreditation Form (through ISMIS)
- Clearance from the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA)
- Accomplished Student’s Personal Data Sheet (through ISMIS)
- Other requirements where applicable 

Note: General Education (basic) Courses taken and passed prior to Academic Year 2018-2019 are ineligible for accreditation except for Rizal and NSTP.

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS. The international students from countries that are members of The Hague Conference on Private International Law (HCCH) shall submit in English Form authenticated documents through the Apostille issued by the Secretary of State of the country of origin. For students from countries not members of HCCH, what applies is an authentication with a red ribbon by the Philippine Embassy in the country of origin. 

For Graduates from Schools Abroad, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment: 
- Transcript of Records (1st and 2nd semesters of Grade 11 and Grade 12) for Bachelor’s Program (IGCSE/GCSE with A-Levels may also be considered)
- Diploma/Certificate of graduation Grade 12
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page showing date and place of birth 
- English Proficiency Requirement with a rating in either IELTS with a score of 6.0 or TOEFEL with a score of at least 60 or as prescribed by the program. » Applicants, who graduated from schools that used English as a medium of instruction, are required to submit a certificate issued by the head of the institution or its legal representative. 
- Birth Certificate/ Family Register / Household Register 
- Police Clearance (No Criminal Record) issued by the national police authorities in the student’s country of origin or legal residence. 
- Original copy of notarized Affidavit of Support and proof of adequate financial support or bank statement to cover expenses for student’s accommodation and subsistence, school fees, and other incidental expenses. 
- Five (5) copies of the Student’s Personal History Statement (PHS) duly signed in English and in his/her national language accompanied by his/her personal seal, if any. The PHS should contain his/her left and right thumb-prints, and a 2X2 inch photograph on plain white background taken not more than six (6) months before submission. 
Once officially enrolled, the International Student must comply with the Bureau of Immigration requirements of the following: 
- Student Visa Conversion (from tourist visa category to student visa) 
- Student Visa Extension or Special Study Permit (SSP) 

For International Students Graduating from Senior High Schools in the Philippines, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment: 
- Report Card (Form 138) (1st and 2nd semester of Grade 12) duly certified/signed by the School Registrar/ Principal as eligible for college
- Photocopy of Diploma
- Birth Certificate / Household Register / Family Register duly authenticated 
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page showing date and place of birth 
- Copy of Special Study Permit (SSP) issued by the Bureau of Immigration or copy of other visas e.g. SSRV, SIRV, 9G etc.
- Original copy of notarized Affidavit of Support and proof of adequate financial support or bank statement to cover expenses for student’s accommodation and subsistence, school fees, and other incidental expenses. 
- Five (5) copies of the Student’s Personal History Statement (PHS) duly signed both in English and in his/ her national language accompanied by his/her personal seal, if any. The PHS should contain his/her left and right thumb-prints, and a 2X2 inch photograph on plain white background taken not more than six (6) months before submission.
Once officially enrolled, the International Student must comply with the Bureau of Immigration requirements of the following:
- Student Visa Conversion (from tourist visa category to student visa) 
- Student Visa Extension or Special Study Permit (SSP)

For international student transferees from Philippine Schools, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment:
- Original copy of the Certificate of Transfer Credential (Honorable Dismissal)
- Transcript of Records (Informative Copy) 
- Certificate of Good Moral Character / Clearance from OSA 
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page
- Copy of 9F valid Student Visa Stamp 
- Copy of Alien Certificate of Registration of Identification Card (ACR-ICard) 
- Birth Certificate / Family Register / Household Register duly authenticated
- NBI clearance 
- Original copy of notarized Affidavit of Support and proof of adequate financial support or bank statement to cover expenses for student’s accommodation and subsistence, school fees, and other incidental expenses.

For transferees from schools abroad, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment:
- Transcript of Records
- Certificate of Graduation/Diploma 
- Police clearance (No Criminal Record) issued by the national police authorities in the student’s country of origin or legal residence 
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page 
- English Proficiency Requirement with a rating in either IELTS with a score of 6.0 or TOEFEL with a score of at least 60 or as prescribed by the program.
- Birth Certificate/ Family Register/ Household Register 
- Original copy of notarized Affidavit of Support and proof of adequate financial support or bank statement to cover expenses for student’s accommodation and subsistence, school fees, and other incidental expenses. 
- Five (5) copies of the Student’s Personal History Statement (PHS) duly signed both in English and in his/ her national alphabet accompanied by his/her personal seal if any, containing among others, his/her left and right thumb-prints and a 2X2 inch photograph on plain white background taken not more than six (6) months prior to submission.
Once officially enrolled, the International Student must comply with the Bureau of Immigration requirements of the following upon enrollment:
- Student Visa Conversion (from tourist visa category to student visa) 
- Student Visa Extension or Special Study Permit (SSP)

For those with dual citizenship and graduated abroad, they should bring the following requirements upon enrollment:
- Transcript of Records (Informative Copy)
- Certificate of Graduation/Diploma 
- Police Clearance (No Criminal Record)/ Certificate of Good Moral Character 
- Photocopy of Passport bio-page/Philippine Passport 
- Original Authenticated PSA (NSO) Birth Certificate 
- Clear photocopy of Birth Certificate 
- A valid Philippine Passport: Identification Certificate (IC) or Certificate of Reacquisition/Retention of Philippine Citizenship

The complete enrollment documentation shall be submitted to the EXTERNAL RELATIONS AND INTERNATIONALIZATION OFFICE (ERIO), Downtown Campus personally or through a courier service addressed to: 
EXTERNAL RELATIONS AND INTERNATIONALIZATION OFFICE
University of San Carlos 
P. Del Rosario St. 
Cebu City 6000, Philippines 
The University may invalidate the enrollment of a student who has been found to have submitted an intentional misrepresentation/misdeclaration or falsification of submitted documents.

The University admits other enrollees such as Cross Enrollees and Consortium Students. They are non-USC students who intend to enroll in the University for a semester subject to the approval of the Department Chair and School Dean. They should submit a Permit to Study / Cross-enrollment Permit issued by the Registrar of the home institution during the enrollment period.

The University admits other enrollees such as:

Cross enrollees and consortium students. They are non-USC students who intend to enroll in the University for a semester subject to the approval of the Department Chair and School Dean. They should submit a Permit to Study / Cross-enrollment Permit issued by the Registrar of the home institution during the enrollment period.

Special Students. They are students admitted to the University but are not entitled to receive official credit for a course because they do not satisfy the requirements for admission. Furthermore, they are not eligible for any honors or privileges. 
During enrollment they should: 
- get written approval from the School Dean and/or Department Chair concerned;
- go to the Office of the University Registrar to execute the contract in which they waive the right to receive and demand credit for the work done; 
- pay in full the required fees at the time of enrollment; 
- have a Special Study Permit (for foreign students).
Foreign nationals who intend to enroll as Special Students should get clearance from the External Relations and Internationalization Office.

Philippine-born alien students (children of foreign nationals in the Philippines) are required to submit a photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration I-Card (ACR I-Card) and Native Born Certificate of Registration (NBCR) which are certified by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED). During the application for graduation, the student shall submit a receipt of payment for the Alien Registration Fee for the current year. Foreign-born alien students are required to submit a photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) that is certified by CHED. Students whose parents are naturalized Filipinos are required to submit a photocopy of the Identification Certificate issued by the Bureau of Immigration, which is certified against the original copy by CHED.

The name and other personal data and circumstances of each student as indicated in his/her birth certificate or Alien Certificate of Registration, where applicable, shall prevail.


Topic 15: Post-Admission Enrollment Steps

Once the application for admission is accepted by the Department Chair, a student can now proceed to the enrollment with the following steps:

Step 1: Submit the requirements personally or via courier to the Records Section of the Office of the University Registrar. Once received and verified by the Office of the University Registrar, the applicant will now be tagged to the program applied for. The applicant will receive a clearance slip upon submission of the mandatory requirements which will be required for the issuance of the RFID (School ID) after enrollment. 

Step 2: Check the inbox and/or spam folder of the email address specified/registered in the application form. Once the applicant is tagged to his/her applied program, the applicant receives an email indicating his/her acceptance in the University as well as the student ID number and a link in ISMIS where he/she can set his/her password. The email address is the one he/she has specified in the application form. Please note that the link expires after 24 hours. To request for a new link, email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph. 

Step 3: Pay the down payment of Php 3,000.00 through the most convenient payment channels which can be accessed in this website: https://www.usc.edu.ph/updated-payment-channels. For scholars, they need to request for the endorsement letter from the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement (OAASJP) and the OAASJP will email it to assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph to bypass or override the down payment. If the applicant is unable to enroll after 2 to 3 banking days of paying the down payment, send a proof of payment to offsitecol@usc.edu.ph.

Step 4: Log in to the ISMIS portal with the website https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/ using the given username and the set password.

Step 5: In the ISMIS portal, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Student Enrollment" and proceed with either block enrollment or non-block enrollment depending on the period set during the day the enrollment module is accessed. For concerns, contact the department chair.

Step 5: Print the study load by clicking "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "View Study Load" and click the Print button. 

Step 6:  Proceed to the IRMO ID Room (either at the Downtown or Talamban Campus) for picture taking. The School ID will only be released upon the presentation of the clearance from the Office of the University Registrar. For concerns on this step, please email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph.

As soon as classes start, students are automatically enrolled in the CANVAS Learning Management System (LMS) to receive announcements and updates of the courses they are enrolled in as well as through the USC emails of the students. If there are no notifications received, you may email irmoacs@usc.edu.ph to request for an update.


Topic 16: Enrollment Mechanics

Every applicant student must enroll during the prescribed registration period. Detailed instructions on online enrollment procedures are in ISMIS and the official USC website. Enrollment by proxy is not allowed. Enrollment is done in the ISMIS portal. The link for the ISMIS portal is https://ismis.usc.edu.ph.

Integrated School Management Information System (ISMIS) refers to the portal for USC students, faculty, and staff. It is a repository of pertinent school information. Officially enrolled students can view grades, class schedules, application for student requests (withdrawal, program shift, overload, etc.), assessment and enrollment.

When a student registers in USC, it is understood that he/she is enrolling for the entire term.

A student is officially enrolled after he/she has submitted the required documentation requirements at the Office of the University Registrar, has made an initial payment of school fees, and has been issued or has downloaded a validated Study Load that authorizes him/her to attend classes. Upon receipt of the required documents, a clearance form for the USC ID card will be given. 

A student must be officially enrolled in a course to participate in class activities, take quizzes and major exams, and to receive a grade at the end of the semester. His/her name must be reflected on the class list. 

Course refers to a subject offered in a tertiary institution. It is identified by the course title, course code, and course description. Class List is a list of students officially enrolled in a particular course and schedule.

During the enrollment period, a student may change a program upon the endorsement of the Department Chair and School Dean and approval by the Registrar. Changes are not permitted after the close of the enrollment period. 

In general, Cross-enrollment is discouraged. However, for valid reasons, as determined by the Department Chair and the approval of the School Dean, cross-enrollment in another institution may be permitted to graduating students (with a Deficiency Form) of not more than six (6) units during the semester and three (3) units during the summer term, inclusive of the total units enrolled in that particular term. Furthermore, cross-enrollment is not allowed if it is the only remaining course so as not to prejudice the student’s residency in the University. The last course must be taken at the University.

A permit to study in another school with accredited programs may be granted upon the recommendation of the Department Chair and the approval of the School Dean but only for general education courses. Major, professional, or technical courses required for the degree program pursued have to be taken at the University. 

Withdrawal of courses is allowed even after the close of the enrollment period with the endorsement of the Department Chair and School Dean. The Application for withdrawal of course(s) is online in ISMIS under Student Task. Withdrawal of course(s) is not allowed after mid term examinations or after the incurrence of unexcused absences (20% of the total number of required school days). Corresponding charges for withdrawal are stipulated in Section 3.6. 

Transfer of students and transfer credentials. A student who intends to transfer to another school should apply for a Certificate of Transfer Credentials (CTC) online in ISMIS. Such a certificate with the informative copy of the Transcript of Records and other documents will be issued only after the applicant has been cleared of all financial and property liabilities.


Topic 17: Enrollment Timeline

The order of enrollment modes are Block Enrollment, Non-block enrollment, Open Market, and Adjustment Period. The enrollment dates for every term (regular semester and summer) can be found in the academic calendar. 

Commonly, enrollment begins with a block enrollment period for all year students. After a few days, the mode of enrollment shifts to non-block enrollment, first for third to fifth year students, then for first and second year students. The next period is open market, which reservation of courses to specific departments will already be lifted. Here, the student can now see other schedules which may suit him/her better. The final period is adjustment period which the enrollment module will no longer be accessible by the student but instead by the department. Here, there might be changes in your class schedules, rooms, and instructors based on the status of the course. Undersized classes might be dissolved and you have to contact your department for resolutions. Hence, students are advised to monitor their enrollment status during the adjustment period to see for any sudden changes done by the department.

Block sectioning allows a student to enroll all the courses for the term at once. Eligibility: You are eligible for block sectioning if you are enrolling for a regular full load in a given semester. You must not have incurred any failures or NG from the previous semesters. Note that the only way students are eligible for block enrollment is that they obtained passing grades for all courses that are pre-requisite to the set of courses on a given semester. Should this be not met, they have to opt for non-block enrollment instead and enroll only the courses they are eligible in. You are allowed to not fully consume all the units allotted for you in a given semester based on your year level standing.

Non-block sectioning requires the student to advise and enroll a course one at a time. This is available to all students regardless of their course statuses and only after the block enrollment period has ended. During non-block enrollment, the course schedules which the students can view during this period are only those which are reserved to their home department.


Topic 18: Enrollment Steps for Continuing Students

Following are the main steps for enrollment to be done by all continuing students:

Step 1: Log in to your ISMIS account. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and log-in using your given credentials

Step 2: Go to student enrollment function. Inside the ISMIS portal, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Student Enrollment".

Step 3: Settle your accountabilities, if any. Should you receive a pop-up message informing you that you cannot proceed with enrollment, check the content. If it alerts you about down payment, please refer to the amount indicated on your screen. if it alerts you about past dues / balances, please go to "Student Ledger" to view payables. Then pay the specified amount via payment channels and follow the payment instructions indicated. There is no need for continuing students to send proof of payment (such process is only applicable to incoming freshies). To check as to whether payment has been cleared (meaning, USC has received bank confirmation), please go to "Student Task", "Assessment", and click "Student Ledger". If you need clearance from specific offices, go to notifications icon at ISMIS, beside your profile picture by clicking click "View Notifications", then contact each office indicated and request for temporary clearance or unblocking.

Step 4a: For block enrollment, advise and enroll for a block section. Click "Block Advising", then choose your desired Block Section, and then click "Enroll Block Section". Once done, you are now officially enrolled.

Step 4b: For non-block enrollment, advise and enroll the courses one by one. Click "Advise Course", then select from the available schedules. The schedule can be picked only when the slots are not yet full and you do not have conflicts from other courses. Then click "Enroll Course". Repeat until you are able to advise and enroll the courses you are allowed to take for this semester. Note that the reservation of courses to specific departments will be enforced until open market begins where students can begin viewing the other schedules from other departments.

Step 5: Enroll in GE Free Electives. GE Free Electives may not form part of a block section in some programs. You may wish to know which elective courses are offered this semester. To do this inside ISMIS, click the "Student Task" tab, then click "Enrollment Related" from the drop-down list, then click "View Offered Courses", then type in "GE-FEL" and the current academic period and year. During the block and non-block sectioning enrollment period, you will only find GE Free Electives reserved to your department. More options will be available during open market period provided they are not full yet. Once you know which elective course to take, click the "Student Task" tab, then click "Enrollment Related" from the dropdown list, then click "Student Enrollment", then click "Advice Course". Select the rows for free electives e.g. GE-FREELEC 1, then Select from the available schedule and click "Enroll Course".

Step 6: View your study load. Should you wish to view or print your study load, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "View Study Load". This will serve as your proof of enrollment which will be asked by some of your instructors or in activities that you will be joining as a student.



Topic 19: Enrollment Concerns

If there are no more slots for General Education courses under your department, wait for open market period where you can pick other groups which are from the other departments. Be mindful of the building and room assigned for the schedule.

If there are no more slots for a major course offered by your department, reach out to your program coordinator. We also request the affected students to be patient as the coordinators have to consider the classroom and teacher availability before being able to open another class group for a particular course. Note that during adjustment period, classes with insufficient students will be dissolved so the extra needed groups may be held in those timeslots instead.

Where can I see a list of Programs in USC with their prospectus? To see the list of Programs in the University and the contact details of all Departments, check the Program Owners powerpoint in the Comprehensive Enrollment Guide. A syllabus may be requested from the Department that handles the Program. Only the prospectus of your Program is found in your ISMIS account.

Why has my INC has the override application been disapproved? You may have not properly indicated your course in the application. Students can check their application status by clicking the eye button beside their application form.	

The tuition fees that a student should pay for the semester depends on the program enrolled in, the year level of the students, the number of courses taken, the type of the courses taken by the student (lecture or laboratory), the type of offering for the class(regular, petition, or tutorial), and the department offering the courses taken by the student. The department sets the course fees and laboratory fees for the courses they offer which is fixed and can only be changed by university-wide fee adjustments. To know the tuition fee amount to pay for the current semester, log in to your ISMIS account and click "Student Task", "Others", then "Assessment". The tuition fee for the course will be reflected once you have enrolled in that course during the enrollment period. You may also access the tuition fees from the past semesters by toggling the Semester and Year dropdowns in the Assessment page. In the Assessment page, you can also view a breakdown of your dues of the current semester, which include semestral fees and other adjustments aside from your tuition fees.  

To apply for promissory note, go to "Promissory Note" in ISMIS and click "Apply Promissory Note". Note tht this module is only available only within the enrollment period. Choose the option "Enrollment" in the dropdown list if the promissory is for balance for the previous semester. After inputting the installment plan for the outstanding balance, provide the amount and promised date when you would like to settle the amount you have indicated. You may chooose to have 2,3 or 4 installment options to settle the balance depending on your choice. The amount indicated in the installment plan is on top of the current semester's dues. When inputing the amount, do not use comma separators. An interval of at least 30 days must be observed between installment updates. Total installment payment must equal to the balance shown up to the last cent. Note that a student cannot apply for another promissory note if he or she has not settled the balances from the previous promissory note. After applying for promissory note, you still need to pay for the downpayment before you can proceed to enrollment.

What is an Institutional Student Programs and Services Fee? The fee is for various services maintained for administrative support, Information Technology (IT), and energy as per Fr. Arthur Villanueva, Vice President for Finance in his Advisory dated July 24, 2020.

To access the Library Services of USC online, go to "Student Task" in ISMIS, then click "Library Related" and choose any of the options provided. Log in again using your USC email credentials when prompted.

Following are the face to face class reminders: Arrive on campus on time based on your class schedules. Your teachers will be meeting you for their course orientations. Allow extra travel time for traffic and to locate your rooms. Proceed to your classroom on time, even if you don't have an assigned teacher. Your final lineup of teachers will be released at the end of the adjustment period. If your teacher does not show up 30 minutes after class starts, it will be cancelled. You will be dismissed 10 minutes before the end of class to transfer to your next class.


Topic 20: Course Accreditation

For accreditation of courses taken from previous schools or program, this is applicable for courses taken by a student from his/her previous local or international school or from his/her previous program within USC with a different course code. If such request is approved, the student does not necessarily have to enroll in such courses. 

To apply for course accreditation, click "Student Task", "Others", and "Apply Course Accreditation". In the form, type the course taken from previous school, or choose from the drop down list the course code from your previous program within USC. Next indicate the equivalent course applied for and upload all the relevant attachments such as course syllabus, prospectus, and grades before submitting. You may monitor your status at "Application history" which includes the evaluator for document assessment, course custodian for accreditation approval, dean for approval, and evaluator for encoding of the accredited course in the system. 

To view accredited courses: click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "View Grades". Scroll down and will find the accredited courses at the bottom part of the list.


Topic 21: Course Override

Course override is s a request to be filed if a student incurred a grade of "INC" in his/her pre-requisite course and would like to enroll in the succeeding course. You are eligible to apply for course override if you are a graduating student for the semester you are currently in. Failure in the prerequisite course invalidates the succeeding course even if you get a passing grade for the latter. The system automatically considers it as a failure.

To apply for course override, go to "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Override". Search for the succeeding course you would like to enroll in and click "Submit". You may monitor your status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval.

Once approved, the registrar staff will be the one to advise the course. If you can still access the enrollment module, you can now choose a schedule by clicking "Enroll". Otherwise, registrar staff will be the one to enroll you to the course.


Topic 22: Course Equivalency or In-Lieu

Course equivalency, or in-lieu, is an enrollment option available to all students. Any student can apply for this request. This request becomes necessary when the original course is not offered but there is another course with different descriptive title but the same course content and academic units in a different program offered by the same department or a program of another department.

To apply for course equivalency, go to "Student Task", "Others", and "Application for Course Equivalency". In the form, select first the course outside the prospectus you are requesting to be considered as an equivalent course, then select the course equivalent in current prospectus. Once done, click the "click to add course equivalency item" button to add the course. The previous steps can be repeated if you are applying for course equivalency for more than one course. Click "Submit" once you have encoded all the courses you want to apply for equivalency. You may monitor your status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, course custodian for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval.

Once approved, the registrar staff will be the one to advise the course. If you can still access the enrollment module, you can now choose a schedule by clicking "Enroll". Otherwise, registrar staff will be the one to enroll you to the course.


Topic 23: Overload

Overload is an enrollment request where a student will enroll more than the maximum number of allowed units in a semester. Requests for overload is a special case made available for a graduating student so he/she can graduate on time. The allowable maximum number of units for overload is 6 units.

To apply for overload, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Overload". In the form, indicate the academic year and period, the courses which will be an overload, and the reason for applying for overload, then click "Submit". You may monitor your status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval. 

Once approved, the registrar staff will be the one to advise the course. If you can still access the enrollment module, you can now choose a schedule by clicking "Enroll". Otherwise, registrar staff will be the one to enroll you to the course.


Topic 24: Simultaneous Enrollment

Simultaneous Enrollment is a request to be filed when a student needs to simultaneously enroll the pre-requisite course with the succeeding course for valid reason(s). Simultaneous enrollment means that both the pre-requisite course and the succeeding course will be enrolled together in the same semester. You are eligible to apply for course override if you are a graduating student on the semester you are currently in. Failure in the prerequisite course invalidates the succeeding course even if you get a passing grade for the latter. The system automatically considers it as a failure.

To apply for Simultaneous Enrollment, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Simultaneous Enrollment". In the form, search and select the courses to be enrolled in the current semester, then click "Submit". You may monitor your status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval. 

Once approved, the registrar staff will be the one to advise the course. If you can still access the enrollment module, you can now choose a schedule by clicking "Enroll". Otherwise, registrar staff will be the one to enroll you to the course.


Topic 25: Tutorial and Petition

Off-semester courses may be requested by students as petitioned or tutorial classes.  Additional charges may apply depending on the number of students.

To apply for petition or tutorial, click "Student Task", "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Petition/Tutorial". Click the lens icon to open the form. In the form, indicate the academic year and period. Then indicate the course and course status based on the number of students signing up and the type of course. For 1 to 5 students for a lecture course, it will be a tutorial offering. For 6 to 29 students for a lecture course, it will be a petition offering. For 30 students and above for a lecture course, it will be converted to a regular offering. For laboratory courses, regardless of the number of students signing up, it will be a petition offering. Click "Submit" once the form is filled. 

Once the request is generated, you are then to join the request by clicking the plus icon, then input the required details in the next form and submit. Do not forget to click the check icon to confirm your inclusion in the petition or tutorial. Read and understand the confirmation page and click confirm if you agree to the provisions of the request. You may monitor your status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, audit for endorsement, and registrar for approval. 

Once approved, the registrar staff will be the one to advise and enroll the students to the petition or tutorial course. Note that the student shall be charged ith the additional fee whether or not he or she attends the class.


Topic 26: Course Withdrawal

Withdrawal of courses is allowed even after the close of the enrollment period. Withdrawal of courses is not allowed either after the mid-term examinations or after the student has incurred unexcused absences. A student can only withdraw from his/her enrolled courses during the current semester. That means, he or she cannot withdraw any courses from previous semesters. Requests for withdrawal can be partial or complete. The latter would require additional steps for clearance and an interview with the Counseling and Development Center for a better understanding of the situation the student may be in.

Partial Withdrawal is the type of request to be filed if the student intends to withdraw certain courses only. To apply for partial withdrawal, go to "Student Task", then click "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Partial Course Withdrawal". Specify the courses which you would like to withdraw and indicate the reason for the withdrawal, then click "Submit". You may monitor the status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval. Once approved, the registrar staff will mark such courses with "W" for withdraw.

Complete Withdrawal is the type of request to be filed if the student intends to withdraw all of his or her courses in the current semester. To apply for complete withdrawal, go to "Student Task", then click "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Complete Course Withdrawal". Indicate the reason for the withdrawal and click "Submit". You may monitor the status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, counseling and development center for exit interview and endorsement, library for accountability check, and accounting for accountability check, and registrar for approval. Once approved, the registrar staff will mark all the courses with "W" for withdraw.

As a general guideline, the financial implication of either partial and complete withdrawal are the following: 10% of tuition fees if request is filed within the 1st week of classes, 20% of tuition fees if request is filed within the 2nd week of classes, and 100% of tuition fees if request is filed beyond the 2nd week of classes.


Topic 27: Additional Enrollment Steps for Returnee

Below are the guidelines for returnees. A returnee is a student who has not enrolled in his/her program for at least a semester and has not transferred to another university.  After 2 consecutive semesters, the ISMIS account of such student is deactivated. 

To re-activate your ISMIS account, send an email to comptroller's office informing the office that you are a returnee and would like to seek clearance from the accounting office. If you are an international student, seek clearance from the Office of External Relations & Internationalization. Send an email to Office of Registrar for review and endorsement and contact the department chair for certification of reacceptance. Once acknowledged, submit the clearances and the certificate of reacceptance to the Office of Registrar via email. Upon approval, the registrar staff updates your ISMIS account accordingly and you can proceed to non-block sectioning enrollment.


Topic 28: Additional Enrollment Steps for Shiftee

A student may either desire to shift or may be advised to shift to another program within (Change of Program-Same Department) or another department (Change of Program-Different Department).  In whichever case, the Counseling and Development Center conducts an interview with the student to assist him/her arrive at an informed career choice.

To file an application to shift to another program, click "Student Task", "Others", and "Apply Change of Program". Select the option that applies to you between "Change Program (Same Department)" or "Change Program (Different Department)". Indicate the academic period, year, school, department, and program where you want to shift to. Place a reason for shifting to that program and then click "Submit". You may monitor the status at "Application History" which includes the old chair for endorsement, counseling and development center for interview, the new chair for endorsement, and registrar for approval.

Once approved, the Registrar staff will tag you to your new program. Proceed to non-block sectioning enrollment, and afterwards, surrender your old RFID to OSFA office, and pay 250 pesos for reprinting and proceed to ID room and bring your blue slip from OSFA and OR for your new RFID.


Topic 29: Additional Enrollment Steps for Returnee-Shiftee

Below are the guidelines for returnee-shiftees.  A returnee may have been advised to shift / may decide to shift to another program after stopping for at least a semester without transferring to another university. After 2 consecutive semesters, the ISMIS account of such student is deactivated. 

To reactivate your ISMIS account, send first an email to comptroller's office informing the office that you are a returnee-shiftee and would like to seek clearance from the accounting office. If you are an international student, seek clearance from the Office of External Relations. Then contact the previous chair to settle any accountabilities with the department. Next, send an email to Office of Registrar for review and endorsement. Once done, contact the new department chair for certificate of acceptance. Submit the clearances and the certificate of acceptance to the Office of Registrar via email. Your ISMIS account will be updated by the Office of Registrar accordingly.

Once your ISMIS account is reactivated, proceed to non-block sectioning enrollment steps. Surrender your old RFID to OSFA office, and pay 250 pesos for reprinting and proceed to ID room and bring your blue slip from OSFA and OR for your new RFID.


Topic 30: Additional Enrollment Steps for Scholarship and Financial Assiatance

Below are the guidelines if you are enjoying a scholarship or student financial assistance.  Downpayment for enrollment may be covered by some scholarships or student assistance programs, thus the need for a "by-pass" upon the signal of authorized offices to Finance. For athlete-scholars, there is no bypassing, thus they need to pay downpayment. For sponsored scholars, the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarshis, and Job Placement facilitates the bypass of applicable fees. For CHED K-12 and SIKAP Grantees, the grants management office facilitates for the bypass of applicable fees. For government grantees, the respective USC project coordinators facilitate the bypassing of applicable fees. For children of employees, the bypass will be based upon the approved application for the privilege made by the employee. Scholars need to request for the endorsement letter from the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement (OAASJP) and the OAASJP will email it to assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph to bypass or override the down-payment. 


Topic 31: Fee Discounts

The two fee discounts available for students during enrollment are Family and Sibling Discount and Full Payment Discount.

Family and Sibling Discount is available for siblings enrolled in USC. A student may enjoy a 5% discount on tuition fees except for the sibling/s enrolled in Montessori, Law, and Graduate Programs. To apply for Family and Sibling Discount, click "Student Task", "Others", and "Apply Same Family Privilege". Click the home icon and indicate academic period and year, then indicate the ID number of the sibling to be included in the privilege, then click "Submit". The application is then forwarded to VP Finance for approval whose status can be monitored.

Full Payment Discount is available for a student who wishes to pay for his or her enrolled courses in full. As a general guideline, discount rates are applied based on how the payment was made. For Offsite Payment Centers and Onsite Cash, a 5% discount on tuition fees is granted. For Onsite Credit Card(Visa or Mastercard), a 3% discount on tuition fees is granted. For Onsite Debit Card, a 3.5% discount on tuition fees is granted. You can contact the Accounting Office for verification and the necessary computations.


Topic 32: Transferring out of USC

A student who wants to transfer out of USC may need specific documents which may be required by the university to where he/she will transfer to. To apply for Certificate of Transfer Credential and an evaluation or informative copy of the Transcript of Records (TOR), click the "Online request for school records" at the log in page of the ISMIS portal. 

To apply for the Certificate of Good Moral Character, go to the Office of Student Formation and Activities office as the Student Discipline Officer will check on your records. If you have no pending cases, you may proceed to the cashier to pay for the fee for the certificate. After paying, you may bring the receipt back to the Office of Student Formation and Activities to claim your certificate of Good Moral Character.


Topic 33: USC Email and Canvas

Students can now use their USC Google Workspace account. Kindly take note of the following:

1. Students email convention is idnumber@usc.edu.ph (e.g. 12345@usc.edu.ph). Use this complete email address when logging in. Your default password is lastname + your idnumber (e.g. delacruz12345). Once logged in, kindly create a recovery email so that you can reset your password anytime in case you forget.

2. Gmail will automatically ask you to change your password but just in case, set up a recover email:
Step 1: Go to "Manage your Google account".
Step 2: Personal Info.
Step 3: Contact Info.
Step 4: Recovery Email.

3. Please use the official USC Google account responsibly and in accordance with Google Workspace for Education Terms of Service.
(https://gsuite.google.com/terms/education_terms.html)


The official Learning Management System (LMS) for University of San Carlos is Canvas. Follow the steps below to set your password and access the Canvas Learning Management System Portal.
1. Go to https://usc.instructure.com.
2. Click the "Forgot Password" link.
3. Provide your USC email address.
4. Click the "Request Password" button.
5. Check your USC email for the reset password link sent by Canvas. Check the Spam box as well since there are instances where the email from Canvas is saved in the Spam box.
6. Click the Reset Password link in the email and set your preferred password.
7. Login to Canvas at https://usc.instructure.com.
8. Username: your USC email address.
9. Your enrolled courses are displayed on the dashboard.


Topic 34: Fees and Fees Adjustments

Once a student is enrolled, he/she is expected to settle the full tuition and other school fees within the term. Term refers to a semester or summer a student is enrolled in. 

Tuition and other school fees may be paid in full at the time of enrollment or by installment (amount set by the Office of Finance). Full tuition and other school fees during enrollment may be paid without prejudice to any additional assessment that may be applied during the term. Information related to rate increases in tuition and other school fees may not have been available/disseminated at the time of enrollment. Students can pay their fees at the cashier which is located at the ground floor of Bunzel building, or through online means.

Discounts are granted on full payment of school fees within the specified period set by the Office of Finance. Discounts vary depending on the form of payment, whether in cash, credit card, or others. Students who wish to avail of the discount are advised to apply at the Accounting Office within a specified time during the enrollment period; otherwise, the privilege will be forfeited. 

Students who cannot pay their tuition and other fees in full during enrollment may settle their account on an installment basis, provided that the downpayment is made at enrollment according to the amount fixed by the University, and the balance must be paid monthlyor on scheduled examination dates. 

The payment status of students can be viewed by teachers on the class lists in ISMIS.

A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the enrollment period during the regular semester of summer term shall be charged P500.00 non-refundable. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the first week of classes during a regular semester or within the first to third day of classes during a summer term shall be charged matriculation fee plus 10% of the remaining total school fees. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the second week of classes during a regular semester or within the fourth to sixth day of classes during a summer term shall be charged matriculation fee plus 20% of the remaining total school fees. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment after the second week of classes during a regular semester or from the seventh day of classes onwards during a summer term shall be charged 100% of the total school fees. A refund of the amount paid (less processing charges and less non refundable matriculation fees) shall be made if the student withdraws during the enrollment period, but prior to the opening of classes.

Members of the same family, that is, brothers and sisters, enrolled during the regular academic year/semester in any of the basic education departments and/or undergraduate colleges of the University (except Montessori, Law, and Graduate programs) are granted a five (5%) percent discount each on tuition fees only or as prescribed by the Office of Finance. This shall be limited to just four (4) students.

Application forms for fee adjustment for children of University employees and members of the same family are available at the Office of the Vice President for Finance.


Topic 35: Curricular and Non-Curricular Requirements

A student enrolled in a bachelor’s or associate program is considered full-time if he/she carries a regular load prescribed in his/her curriculum for a given time. The curricular year of a student is determined by the number of units earned in the curriculum of his/her program. The course load and sequence of courses shall be in accordance with the approved curriculum. Reasonable exceptions may be permitted in individual cases taking into account the best interest of the students and the objectives of the curriculum as determined by the School Dean or Department Chair. No course(s) can be taken ahead of its/their pre-requisite(s); otherwise, it/they shall be nullified and taken again even if the student is graduating. Laboratory courses should be taken with the corresponding lecture courses in the same semester even though separate grades are earned. In case of withdrawal of co-requisites, both courses should be withdrawn together. A failed co-requisite course can be re-enrolled without re-enrolling the other course the student has passed. All curricular policies, including the sequence of courses, apply to transferees and shiftees. They should not be given preference for override of prerequisites and not opening of off-semester courses. Upon admission, the Chair should inform the students of the number of courses that they can enroll in, especially if some courses need prerequisites. The option for tutorial or petition may be provided for an off-semester course but in no case shall the regular students be allowed to join in and take the course in advance.

Course Adjustments

Application for the following course adjustments is in ISMIS:
OVERLOAD. A student may have an overload of not more than six (6) units in excess of the regular load under the following conditions: 
- graduating at the end of the year; has not incurred more than five (5) failures (a grade of 5.0) in those terms that he/she was enrolled at the university 
- grade point average (GPA) is at least 2.8. In computing the GPA, grades of 5.0 and NC are included. - the excess course(s) is/are not prerequisites. Repeated courses due to failures may be taken as overload if recommended by the Department Chair and the School Dean, and approved by the Vice President for Academic Affairs (VPAA). The overload may be spread in the last two terms.

SIMULTANEOUS ENROLLMENT. A student may be allowed to enroll in the pre-requisite course and the advanced course simultaneously in order to graduate during his/her final term. This privilege is restricted to only a particular two-subject load. Simultaneous enrollment involving three or more advanced courses taken together with corresponding prerequisites are not allowed. If the student fails in the prerequisite(s), he/she would have to retake all the advanced courses affected and the enrollment for the advanced courses automatically becomes null and void. Failure in the prerequisite course invalidates the advanced course enrolled simultaneously. Simultaneous enrollment of an advanced major course with a failed prerequisite course may be allowed starting on the third year of a four-year program and on the fourth year of a five-year program.

PETITIONED/TUTORIAL COURSES. Students may request for the opening of a course as a petitioned or tutorial class (lecture) subject to the following conditions: 
- it is an off-semester course
- it is a prerequisite course for the next semester offering 
- it is the only course left for the students to graduate at the end of the term 
- there should be at least six (6) students for the petitioned course and five (5) students or less for the tutorial course 
- a laboratory course can only be requested as a petitioned course.

OVERRIDE COURSES. The override rule due to an INC grade of a prerequisite course in favor of an advanced course may be allowed in the last academic year prior to graduation. It may also be allowed for a subsequent course that requires Internship/Practicum as a requisite in case the student is still completing the said Internship/ Practicum (i.e., number of hours required).

Accreditation of Courses. Accreditation should be on the basis of equivalence in course content and level of instruction. Units earned in non-degree programs may be considered for accreditation to a degree program and limited to general education subjects, and if necessary, the student should be subjected to validating examinations. Necessary precautions should be taken in the case of foreign students in accrediting units earned abroad. Furthermore, accreditation of courses shall be based on the curriculum of the programs, in particular, the topic coverage, and the number of units earned or contact hours. It should be accomplished within the enrollment period upon admission to the University through ISMIS, supported by a copy of the official or informative transcript of records signed by the School Registrar or by an official authority, not the grade slips. Accreditation is subject to the following terms and conditions:

For earned units and credits taken from higher education institutions:
- Earned units to be accredited shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total required academic units of the degree program for graduation.
- Only professional courses taken from PAASCU Level III accredited degree programs may be requested for accreditation.
- General Education Courses with a final grade of 2.5 (B- = 80%) or higher can be accredited if taken from PAASCU-accredited degree programs and a final grade of 2.0 (B+ = 85%) or higher if taken from non-PAASCU accredited degree programs. General Education courses taken prior to 2018-2019 are not credited except for Rizal and NSTP. 
- Validating Examinations shall be administered by the Course Chair to students who do not meet the required final grade. 
- Course description and official copy of the transcript of records (TOR) duly signed by the school registrar shall be the bases for accreditation and not grade slips or print-out of grades. For enrollment purposes, the informative copy of the transcript of records would suffice.
- The approved accreditation of courses is subject to revocation if the records upon which the approval is based are later found to be incorrect.

For earned units and credits taken abroad:
- Earned units to be accredited shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total required academic units of the degree program for graduation. 
- Only collegiate courses with a final grade of 2.0 (B = 85%) or higher can be accredited. 
- Validating Examinations shall be administered by the Course Chair to students who do not meet the required final grade and/ or the required units of the course. The approved accreditation of courses is subject to revocation if the records upon which the approval is based are later found to be incorrect.

For earned units and credits in non-degree programs: 
- Only General education Courses taken in AY 2018-2019 onwards with a final grade of 2.5 (B- = 80%) or higher can be accredited if taken from PAASCU accredited degree programs and a final grade of 2.0 (B = 85%) or higher if taken from non-PAASCU accredited degree programs. 
- Validating Examinations shall be administered by the Subject Chairman to students who do not meet the required final grade.
The approved accreditation of courses is subject to revocation if the records upon which the approval is based are later found to be incorrect.

Residency. The student is expected to complete the program within the period specified in the program. The student may avail of the Maximum Allowable Residency (MAR) that is equal to the required number of years to complete the course multiplied by 1.5. This covers the conduct of research/ thesis as part of the program requirement. The admission of students who go beyond MAR is subject to deliberation by the Department/School. It may be a cause for non-readmission.

Leave of Absence. A student who does not intend to enroll during the following semester is required to file a leave of absence for a maximum of one (1) year prior to its effectivity. He/she writes a letter to the Vice President for Academic Affairs, duly endorsed by the Department Chair and School Dean, with a declaration that he/she shall not enroll in any other school for the duration of the leave. Documents such as doctor’s advice for medical reasons may be attached to justify the leave. The approved Leave of Absence copy shall be part of the student’s permanent record in the Office of the University Registrar. An official Leave of Absence is not counted in the Maximum Allowable Residency (MAR) and does not affect the residency of the student who is vying for graduation honors. Failure to file a leave of absence shall have the following effects: 
- The period covered by the student’s absence shall continue to be counted towards his/her Maximum Allowable Residency (MAR). 
- If a new curriculum is implemented during the absence, he/she shall be required to follow the new curriculum on his/her return. 
- The student’s readmission shall be subject to terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Department/School. 
- A student shall be disqualified to graduate with honors since a continuous enrollment is a requirement.

Examinations. Besides regular class quizzes, tests, and other requirements, four (4) official general examinations are required to be given every term: pre-midterm, mid-term, pre-final, and final examinations. Dates for these examinations are posted on USC’s official website. Faculty members are provided with the examination schedule for their information and guidance.

Students are advised to check their grades through their ISMIS account, print the grades, and keep a copy in a folder together with other important documents ready for reference on occasions such as advising, enrollment, graduation, and other activities when evidence of academic performance is needed. The University is authorized to withhold access to grades of students who may have an academic deficiency, are undergoing disciplinary sanction, or have unsettled financial obligations.


Topic 36: General Courses

General Education. As expressly provided in the CHED CMO No. 20, series of 2013, this is the portion of the curriculum common to all undergraduate students regardless of their major. It exposes them to various domains of knowledge and ways of comprehending social and natural realities, developing in the process their intellectual and civic competencies. Students are then required to take interdisciplinary general education courses consisting of 24 units of core courses, 9 units of elective courses, and 3 units on the life and works of Rizal.

Education with a Mission. In addition to the regular curriculum requirements, all students, regardless of nationality, race, religion, culture, beliefs, must take six (6) units of Education with a Mission (EDM) courses. This facilitates understanding and prepares them to assume their role: Witness to the Word.

Physical Education. Students are required to complete eight (8) units of Physical Education (TPE) during their first two (2) years. Simultaneous enrollment in two (2) or more TPE courses in a particular term is not permitted. TPE units are included in the summation of the total study load for the term and in the computation of the grade point average (GPA). Students with particular medical conditions or disabilities may take adapted TPE classes in consultation with the Department of Physical Education.

National Service Training Program.The Implementing Rules and Regulations of National Service Training Program (NSTP) Act of 2001 states that "all incoming freshmen students, male and female, starting school year 2002-2003, enrolled in any baccalaureate program and in at least 2-year technical and vocational or associate course, are required to complete one NSTP component of their choice, as a graduation requirement." It has the following components which the students can choose from: Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), Literacy Training Service (LTS), and Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS). Each of these components shall be undertaken for an academic period of two (2) semesters; and shall be credited for three (3) units with 54 to 90 training hours each semester. International students, however, are not required to enroll in the NSTP. International students are exempted from taking NSTP.


Topic 37: Academic Performance and Grading System

Attendance. A student who incurs unexcused absences of more than 20% of the prescribed number of class hours or laboratory periods during the term should be given NC or 5.0.

Probation and Retention. If in any term, astudent fails in one-third of the units in which he/she is enrolled, he/she should not re-enroll in the same program without approval from the School Dean and the endorsement of the Department Chair. If the student fails the second time, he/she may enroll in another program if accepted by the Department Chair concerned. A student is disqualified from the University if he/she fails the third time. 

As a general rule, disqualification from the program no longer applies to the third-year level of a four-year program and to the fourth-year level of a five-year program. However, each department may have its own retention policy with the approval of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

The grading system adopted by the University is as follows:
A grade of 1.0 is equivalent to 100-95%. A grade of 1.1 is equivalent to 94%. A grade of 1.2 is equivalent to 93%. A grade of 1.3 is equivalent to 92%. A grade of 1.4 is equivalent to 91%. A grade of 1.5 is equivalent to 90%. A grade of 1.6 is equivalent to 89%, A grade of 1.7 is equivalent to 88%, A grade of 1.8 is equivalent to 87%. A grade of 1.9 is equivalent to 86%. A grade of 2.0 is equivalent to 85%. A grade of 2.1 is equivalent to 84%. A grade of 2.2 is equivalent to 83%. A grade of 2.3 is equivalent to 82%. A grade of 2.4 is equivalent to 81%. A grade of 2.5 is equivalent to 80%. A grade of 2.6 is equivalent to 79%. A grade of 2.7 is equivalent to 78%. A grade of 2.8 is equivalent to 77%. A grade of 2.9 is equivalent to 76%. A grade of 3.0 is equivalent to 75%. And a grade of 5.0 is equivalent to below 75%.

A grade of 1.0 is equal to letter grade A+. A grade of 1.1 to 1.3 is equal to letter grade A. A grade of 1.4 to 1.7 is equal to letter grade A-. A grade of 1.7 to 1.9 is equal to letter grade B+. A grade of 2.0 to 2.2 is equal to letter grade B. A grade of 2.3 to 2.5 is equal to letter grade B-. A grade of 2.6-2.8 is equal to letter grade C+. A grade of 2.9 to 3.0 is equal to letter grade C. A grade of 5.0 is equal to C-.

A passing grade is a grade within 1.0 and 3.0. A grade of 5.0 means failure.

Unsatisfactory performance or unexcused absences of more than 20% of the prescribed number of class hours or laboratory periods during the term merits a 5.0 or failure as well.

You need a numeric grade within 1.0 to 3.0 to pass a given course. Take note that it is based solely on the final grade, while the midterm grades are completely irrelevant at this point. For the passing percentage, please revisit the syllabus of your courses or contact your instructors.

If a student gets a 5.0 or NC, it means that he or she has failed the course and therefore needed to retake in the succeeding semester until he or she passes the subject.

INC means incomplete, a grade which indicates that the student has an initial passing grade but has not complied with all the academic requirements or failed to take the final examination for the course due to sickness, emergency cases, or accident. It can also mean a failure to submit a major course requirement. It must be completed within the reasonable period set by the faculty member but not to exceed six (6) months following the semester or summer in which the course was taken; otherwise, the grade automatically becomes "NC" (No Credit).

NC means no credit, a Final grade which does not earn credit nor indicate failure given in those cases where the student did not take the final examination in the course and did not inform the teacher of the reason for failing to take the final examination before the deadline for submission of grades in ISMIS, and his/her performance was not satisfactory to meit a passing grade. Such a grade is permanent and cannot be changed subsequently.

W means withdrawal of enrollment from course/s with official notice.

IP means in Progress, a grade given to students who are still working on their thesis for a maximum of one (1) year. It cannot be used for courses other than thesis. Once they complete their thesis, students will earn a numerical grade.

Computation of Grade Point Average (GPA). The GPA is computed in all curricula by multiplying the number of units assigned to a course by the final grade earned and then by dividing the summation of the products by the total number of units enrolled for the term. Grades of 5.0 and NC of credit courses are, however, included in the GPA calculation. Grade in NSTP is excluded from the computation. Practicum/Internship/OJT will be included in the computation of the GPA provided that the department considers it as an academic course and that the department has obtained prior approval from the VPAA.

Dean’s Honors List. The University recognizes superior scholastic achievement through the Dean’s Honors List per semester of each School/ Department. The qualifications for Dean's Honors List are as follows:
- A regular load for the semester according to the curriculum enrolled.
- A Grade Point Average (GPA) of at least 1.70.
- Of good moral character and has not been found guilty of any offenses.
Students in the Dean’s Honors List qualify for the Carolinian Honors List, with Scientia representing 70% of the computation. These are the students with a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 1.0 to 1.7.

Carolinian’s Honors List. In view of the Mission and Vision of the University of San Carlos, whichaims to develop competent and socially responsible professionals and life-long learners in an environment that fosters excellence in the academic core processes of teaching-learning, research, and community extension service, the Carolinian Honors List (CHL) recognizes the holistic achievements of the student in the University.

The CHL aims to identify students who embody the Carolinian identity, that of being a Witness to the Word. This identity is gauged by the three (3) criteria of Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. The CHL also aims to recognize students in the University who follow the Carolinian path, and possess life skills and values. Scientia refers to academic excellence, where one demonstrates competence and skills in one’s chosen discipline. Virtus is good moral conduct, including active participation in school activities and student organizations. Devotio is involvement in community extension activities outside of the University.

Thus, students are encouraged to exercise citizenship in the University by participating in and getting involved in mandatory/required activities, and volunteering in community extension activities inside and outside of the campus. These activities are in the Carolinian Lifestyle Guide (CLG) and are subject to periodic changes.

The Carolinian Honors are awarded every semester. Students who obtain a CHL average of at least 1.7 will be included in the Carolinian Honors List. A Certificate of Recognition will be awarded in a formal ceremony to be conducted by the School concerned.

The top three (3) ranks of each Cluster will be given a scholarship in the form of a tuition fee discount. If the first in rank of each cluster is already enjoying a full scholarship either by government/private/University sponsorship, the next in line will be given the CHL scholarship. If the student has an existing University scholarship, the one with the higher privilege will be availed. If the student is enjoying a government or private partial scholarship, the CHL privilege will serve as a supplement to cover the difference in tuition fees.


Topic 38: Scholarship, Grants, and Loans

General Guidelines of the Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio Student Financial Assistance Program: The University provides scholarship grants to students characterized by either of the following: scholastic excellence, membership in the USC varsity teams and the USC performing arts groups, and financial status as supported by pertinent documents. Scholarships are likewise afforded to deserving students who meet the requirements of alumni associations, government, and private scholarship benefactors. The scholarship program at USC consists of those sponsored by the University, Alumni, Government, and Private Entities. 

Thus, consistent with the National Government’s thrust (per Uni-FAST Act) and the University Administration's directions, according to the type of Student Financial Assistance, the nomenclatures of student financial assistance privileges are now being rationalized to reflect advocacy of the University’s identity principle "Education with a Mission" and practice of the Carolinians' motto of "Scientia, Virtus & Devotio as provided in the following categories."

Scholarships according to Type of Student Financial Assistance Program (StuFAP):
- Scholarship (Merit/Scientia) – emphasizes excellent academic performance, athletic skills (for Varsity Players), and artistic talents (for the Performing Arts Group, i.e., USC Choristers, USC Dance Troupe & Theater Guild). 
- Grant-in-Aid (Non-Merit/Devotio) – the emphasis is on the long term difficult financial status and needs of the student beneficiary’s family. 
- Loan (Devotio) – considers the financial need at the moment, regardless of the financial status of the student beneficiary’s family.

Scholarships according to Sponsor are the University, SVD-Individuals, Alumni, Faculty Members, USC SSC, Government, and Industry and Private Entities. Scholarships according to levels of education are Graduate, Tertiary, Basic Education, and Senior High School.

As a general rule, scholarship grantees are not allowed multiple scholarships at any given time. But, if there are those qualifying for two are entitled only to the scholarship with the higher financial grant upon the endorsement of the Alumni Affairs, Scholarship and Job Placement Office. However, those who are beneficiaries of a scholarship grant funded by other agencies or by private individuals are entitled to a USC tuition fee discount privilege due to them because of scholastic excellence, i.e., Carolinian Honors List and membership in varsity teams and performing arts groups recognized by the University.

Applicants may inquire about available scholarships and secure forms from the Alumni Affairs, Scholarship and Job Placement Office or Coordinators/Advisers. Scholarship applicants must properly complete forms and specific requirements for submission within the official registration period.


Topic 39: Graduation

The following are the requirements for Graduation: Candidates for graduation are required to apply online in ISMIS for evaluation of their academic records a semester/term before graduation sothat any deficiency can be evaluated. Dates and deadlines for academic evaluation are announced each semester. After evaluating academic records, candidates for graduation should apply online for graduation in ISMIS. Dates and deadlines for the application for graduation are announced each semester. Candidates for graduation are required to accomplish online in ISMIS the clearance for graduation before the final examinations. Their official transcript of records and diplomas will be released when cleared of any financial and property obligations. After the final examinations, application for graduation will no longer be accommodated. The School of Law requires that a candidate’s application for graduation be approved by the Law Faculty and Board of Candidates for Graduation, who shall, among other things, take into consideration the ability of the candidates to pass the Bar Examination. Fines are imposed for late application.

There is no common requirement with regards to CES points that students need to earn prior to graduation. However, some departments require a certain minimum number of CES points that students should acquire to be cleared for graduation. For example, the Department of Computer, Information Sciences, and Mathematics (DCISM) requires 2 CES points from every graduating student, while all the departments in the School of Engineering (SOE) require 60 CES points from every graduating student.

As for Graduation Honors, during the Commencement Rites, both the Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors will be awarded to qualified graduates. For all honors, they must have not committed any infraction and have a Grade Point Average (GPA) of at least 1.70. The minimum GPA reuquirement for Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors is 1.70.

The GPA for the Standard Latin Honors is computed based on the final grades of all courses taken, except NSTP. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude which means With Highest Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude which means With Great Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude which means With Praise.

The GPA for the Carolinian Honors is computed based on the CHL guidelines and the final grades of all courses taken to account for all three components of the core values of USC: Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Highest Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Great Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Praise of San Carlos.

To graduate with honors, a student must:
- carry the required load per term continuously and without interruption as prescribed in the curriculum pursued, unless the student obtains an approved leave of absence for a maximum of one academic year.
-  have completed in USC at least 75% of the total number of academic units and have been in residence for at least three consecutive years immediately prior to graduation.
- carry a minimum study load of 12 units and a workload of at least six (6) hours per day if he/she is a working student for gainful employment, provided that he/she can submit on the date of application for graduation these pieces of evidence of his/her gainful employment: (a) certification of employment by his/her employer, and (b) SSS membership documents or any other pertinent document acceptable to the Awards and Graduation Committee (AGC).
- possess good moral character.
- not have incurred a failing grade (including NSTP and Physical Education TPE courses).

Transferees with unsatisfactory grade/s in the previous school may be considered for Latin honors, provided that he/she is enrolled in a different program in USC. However, shiftees with unsatisfactory grades in the previous program/s are disqualified from graduating with honors. A student may qualify for honors even if he/she has been underloaded for 3 units in a semester for a maximum of two semesters. The underload may also be justified if he/she is a working scholar or a varsity player or a member of the Performing Arts Group of the university.

A subsequent reduction of one rank shall be imposed for any deviation from the policies regarding an honor, including the underload incurred.


Topic 40: CHL Rationale and Aims

In view of the Mission and Vision of the University of San Carlos that aims to develop competent and socially responsible professionals and life long learners in an environment that foster excellence in the academic core processes of teaching-learning, research, and community extension service, the Carolinian Honors List (CHL) replaces the traditional Dean’s List. Those students who qualify to the Carolinian Honors List exhibit the core values of integrity, excellence, commitment, social responsibility, evangelization and leadership. The students in the CHL are assessed, determined, and selected every semester.

The CHL aims the following: 
a) identify students who embody the Carolinian identity, that of being a Witness to the Word. This identity is gauged by the three criteria of Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. 
b) recognize students in the University who follow the Carolinian path, possess life skills and values.

Scientia refers to academic excellence where one demonstrates competence and skills in one’s chosen discipline. Virtus is good moral conduct, including active participation in school activities and student organizations. Devotio is involvement in the community extension activities outside of the University. Thus, students are encouraged to exercise citizenship in the University by participating in and getting involved in mandatory/required activities, and volunteering in community extension activities in and outside of the campus. These activities are found in the Carolinian Lifestyle Guide (CLG) and are subject to periodic changes.


Topic 41: CHL Recognition and Previleges

The Carolinian Honors is awarded every semester. Students who obtain a CHL average of at least 1.7 will be included in the Carolinian Honors List. A Certificate of Recognition will be awarded in a formal ceremony to be conducted by the School concerned. The top three (3) rank of each Cluster will be given a scholarship in the form of a tuition fee discount. The list of clusters include Architecture, Fine Arts and Design, then Arts, then sciences, then Accountancy and Economics, then Business Administration and Hospitality management, then Education, then Engineering, and Health care Professions. For each cluster, the first in rank gets a 100% tuition fee discount, the second in rank gets a 75% tuition discount, and the third in rank gets a 50% tuition fee discount. If the first in rank of each cluster is already enjoying a full scholarship either by government/private/University sponsorship, the next in line will be given the CHL scholarship. If the student has an existing University scholarship, the one with the higher privilege will be availed. If the student is enjoying a government or private partial scholarship, the CHL privilege will serve as a supplement to cover the difference in tuition fees. 

During the Commencement Rites, both the Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors will be awarded to qualified graduates. 

The GPA for the Standard Latin Honors is computed based on the final grades of all courses taken, except NSTP. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude which means With Highest Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude which means With Great Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude which means With Praise.

The GPA for the Carolinian Honors is computed based on the CHL guidelines and the final grades of all courses taken to account for all three components of the core values of USC: Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Highest Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Great Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Praise of San Carlos.


Topic 42: CHL Qualification and Percentage Distribution

The following are the qualifications that the student must have in order to be considered for the CHL: 
a) not have committed any infraction within the semester and 
b) have a General Point Average of at least 1.7. 

The distribution of percentage of the components of CHL are: Scientia (70%), Virtus (15%), and Devotio (15%). The Scientia component is taken from a student’s Grade Point Average (GPA) which must be 1.7 or better. For the Virtus Component, it is evaluated through a combination of Virtus Core required activities (49%), Virtus Core voluntary activities (21%), Virtus Elective Open for all required activities (15%), Virtus Elective Open for all voluntary activities (6%), Virtus Elective Special Interest Group required activities (6%), and Virtus Elective Special Interest Group voluntary activities (3%). For the Devotio Component, it is evaluated through a combination of Devotio Core required activities (9%), Devotio Core voluntary activities (21%), Devotio Elective Open for all required activities (15%), Devotio Elective Open for all voluntary activities (34%), Devotio Elective Special Interest Group required activities (6%), and Devotio Elective Special Interest Group voluntary activities (15%).

The types of programs and activities for the students are: Core, which are essential in the formation of a Carolinian Witness to the Word, and Elective, which supplement and enrich the student’s formation as a Carolinian Witness to the Word. The types of student involvement or participation are: Required, which a student MUST attend/participate in the program/activity, and Voluntary, which a student is highly encouraged to attend/participate in any program/activity on his/her free will or choice. The types of Target Group for the Program and activities are: Open for all, which refers to all students regardless of discipline or year level, and Special interest group, which refers to certain groups for students such as varsity teams.

There are programs where activities are designed for a specific/particular year level. If a student missed the previous activities and wants to be part of the CHL, he/she can join the activity. The points for this activity shall be credited in his/her current term. There are also programs/activities that are stand-alone, meaning these are run only once in a semester/academic year. If a student misses this, he/she can no longer join this kind of program or activity. The points for stand-alone programs/activities are credited on the current semester only.


Topic 43: CHL Process and Computation

The following are the process in the generation of the Carolinian Honors List including the crediting to the accounts of the honor-students concerned.
1) The Office of the School Dean’s will submit a list of students who basically qualify for the Carolinian Honors List to the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (OVPAA). These are the students who have a Grade Point Average of 1.0 to 1.7.
2) The list will then be forwarded by the OVPAA to the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) to screen for infractions.
3) The list, duly reviewed by OSFA, will be forwarded to the assigned members of the CHL Committee who will factor in the points for Virtus and Devotio. The points for Virtus and Devotio are based on the student’s involvement, and voluntary participation in activities inside and outside the university as categorized in the Carolinian Lifestyle Guide (CLG). Overall coordination is handled by the Presidential Assistant for Mission and Spirituality (PAMS) while the planning and implementation of the CLG activities are handled by the respective units. The data of the student’s participation will be provided by the different units who offered the programs and conducted the activities. This must be submitted not more than ten (10) days after the activity. The data from these units will be forwarded to the CHL Committee for computation. A student who was not able to participate in any Virtus or Devotio activity automatically be given a score of 0. However, a student may be given a maximum score of seventy-five (75) for an excused absence provided that necessary documents will be submitted (i.e. medical certificate). If any Virtus or Devotio activity is not implemented, a student is given a bonus score of 100.
4) When all points are factored in, the result will be checked, verified, assessed and approved by the CHL Committee before the list is submitted to the OVPAA.
5) Once the Carolinian Honors List is done, it will be posted on the bulletin board and student learning platforms for a week for students to review and react before finalization and recognition. The student can request for a clarification of the computation through the OVPAA.
6) The OVPAA will then release the final Carolinian Honors List.
7) The Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement (OAASJP) will be provided a copy for the processing of the corresponding discount-privileges of the honor students concerned.
8) The OAASJP will prepare the Credit Memo to be forwarded to the Finance Division for review.
9) After the endorsement by the Vice President for Finance, the Credit Memo will be submitted to the Office of the President for approval.
10) Once approved by the University President, the Assessment Office will be given a copy of the Credit Memo for crediting to the accounts of the honor-students concerned.


Topic 44: CHL Awards for Commencement Rites

For a student to be given the CHL award during the commencement rites, the following should be strictly observed: First, the student must have a GPA of at least 1.7 every semester, for his/her entire residency in a program. NSTP grade is excluded from the computation of the GPA. Practicum/ Internship/ OJT will be included in the computation of the GPA provided that the department considers it as an academic course and the department has obtained prior approval from the VPAA. Second, the distribution of percentage per component is 70% Scientia, 15% Virtus and 15% Devotio. Lastly, the final CHL computation for graduation honors is the average of the CHL grade of every semester.


Topic 45: Rationale of Discipline and Positive School Climate

The University of San Carlos promotes a positive school climate by making the school safe and accepting of a learning environment. A positive school climate means everyone – students, teachers, staff, parents, and community members – feels safe, welcome, and respected. Making the University safe and accepting involves the whole school and focuses on:
1. collaboratively promoting positive student behavior through a code of ethics and conduct 
2. building healthy and respectful relationships throughout the whole school community 
3. preventing inappropriate behavior through initiatives like counseling and other prevention, formation, and intervention programs. 
4. addressing inappropriate behavior through progressive and positive discipline.

The University of San Carlos is moving towards the use of positive discipline although for a long time, it has used progressive discipline and has continued to do so. Such actions as conversing with student offenders, giving them a written warning, meting out a suspension penalty from classes, and expelling them in extreme cases, are the core of progressive discipline in four steps. On the other hand, positive discipline reinforces the good behavior of students and helps them handle negative behavior in an appropriate and mature manner.

Through progressive and positive discipline, the school acknowledges that whenever students do things beneath their expected duties and responsibilities and/or behave inappropriately, it is its duty to teach, guide, mentor, and support them in the intrapersonal or interpersonal trait that they lack. It makes the students realize what behaviors are acceptable and which are not. It shows them that their choices have consequences. Thus, teaching them discipline needs earning trust, building relations, and supporting the improvement in their behavior.

The school fosters holistic character development and wellness by encouraging the students to do the right thing willfully next time due to personal enlightenment (instinct motivation) and not because of fear of sanctions (extrinsic motivation). In its application of progressive and positive discipline, it increases the students’ self-esteem and self-efficacy, developing the Virtus aspect in its motto. Virtus means being true to one’s self and to God in the practice of one’s profession and as a member of society. It also denotes responding to conscience, building up character and acting in prudence. Mirroring the evangelical attitudes, Virtus requires listening and imbibing the beatitudes of Jesus, when developed in the students, they make as their own the Carolinian identity.

Thus, as students and graduates from their respective schools of discipline, they are expected to possess the following attributes and identity: As Carolinian businessmen and economists, they are lifelong learners who continuously strive to become leading economic researchers, global leaders, entrepreneurs, and ethical professionals pushing for inclusive growth grounded on the context of Cebu, Philippines. They are socially conscious and culturally sensitive, ethical business persons who create wealth with a responsibility to share with the less fortunate and the excluded. As Carolinian designers, they possess values and professional ethics in the fair engagement with clients, colleagues, allied professionals, and the public. They are advocates for social responsibility for a just and sustainable development of the natural and built environment. As Carolinian educators, they are noble professionals who seek to uphold the integrity of the teaching profession as missionary educators witnessing to the Word. They seek to contribute to the development of educational theories and practices through functional and meaningful research. As Carolinian lawyers or political scientists, they pursue the common good under the rule of law by being able to identify and articulate legal issues, engaging in critical analysis, deciding on a reasoned alternative among several options and thinking deeply in dealing with legal issues for the first time, and getting the right responses. As Carolinian professional engineers, they are noble leaders and innovators guided by the Gospel truths as they assist society to find sustainable and appropriate solutions to local and global problems. As Carolinian scientists and artists, they are analytical, critical, open minded and innovative professionals imbued with values anchored on the common good. As advocates of the common good, they become agents of change who provide holistic perspective and integral understanding of realities.


Topic 46: Code of Conduct for Students

The Code of Conduct for Students is a set of moral standards aiding Carolinians to embody the University’s Catholic identity principles: Education with a Mission and Witness to the Word. USC aims at the holistic formation of the individual that enlightens the mind, hones skills, and positively transforms character and behavior (Society of the Divine Word, 2010). Thus, graduates of USC are professionally competent and skilled (Scientia), are value-driven and noble in character (Virtus), and are dedicated to social transformation (Devotio).

The Code of Conduct aims to develop the sensitivity of students to moral issues in contemporary life, to strengthen their courage and ability to speak out and act on these issues, and thus, to hone their sense of personal identity as Witness to the Word. Thus, each student of the University is expected to act as a mature Christian, to conduct himself/herself with dignity and deportment, and to uphold the moral standards inside and outside of the Catholic University. A code of conduct is intended to promote a wholesome atmosphere conducive to the full development of the human person in the light of Christian philosophy aligned with the USC Vision-Mission.

Academic Conduct. Students share with their teachers and academic heads the responsibility of maintaining a suitable environment that is conducive to their learning as well as classroom management by their teachers. Students perform their part in this shared responsibility by:
1) Faithfully adhering to the rules and regulations given in the Student Manual; 
2) Assuming full accountability and responsibility for their own learning and actively taking part in the learning of other students; 
3) Exerting every effort to relate what they learn in the classroom to the real world outside; 
4) Observing proper academic conduct at all times, specifically abstaining from committing plagiarism, cheating in tests or examinations, falsifying academic documents, and abetting students to do all these immoral acts; 
5) Demonstrating sensitivity to and appreciation of the facilities provided for their learning by the University by refraining from defacing, damaging, or committing wastage and theft of institutional resources.

Student - Student Relationship Conduct. As a major part of the University community, students are responsible for promoting genuine collegiality among their peers through mutual respect as well as by the example of their moral behavior. This collegiality is manifested in the following actions:
1) Respecting the rights of fellow students to learn and affording them courtesy and respect at all times; 
2) Valuing and respecting the diverse qualities and gifts of their peers, especially those of other cultures, religions, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expressions, nationalities, and social classes; 
3) Respecting each other as individuals. Under no circumstance shall they physically or psychologically harm or threaten to harm others by bullying, hazing, stalking, harassing or discriminating students in any form; 
4) Accepting constructive criticism from fellow students.

Student - Teacher Relationship Conduct. The maturity of society’s culture is assessed by the level of respect for and appreciation of its members to those who pass on to each generation the knowledge and wisdom that is its heritage. Students demonstrate this respect in the following manner:
1) Treating their teachers with the respect for the experience, knowledge, and concern they have for their welfare and learning; appropriately asking permission to use communication and information technology equipment in the classroom as a sign of respect to the teacher.
2) Actively participating and engaging in sound interaction and dialogue with their teachers and their peers without fear of intimidation; 
3) Appreciating feedback or constructive criticisms from their teachers as part of the normal process of formative education; 
4) Refraining from giving personal favors or gifts, whether in cash or in kind, in return for any special consideration such as a passing grade, the granting of honors, consideration, or other concessions; 
5) Being truthful in their reasons for not completing academic assignments, attending class, or taking an examination; 
6) Properly elevating their concern to the proper authorities like the department chairperson, dean, Vice Presidents for Academic Affairs, and/ or the President should they feel they are not given a fair and reasonable hearing on an academic matter.

Student - Administrative Relationship Conduct. Administrative employees of the University fulfill unassuming but indispensable functions in rendering support to the programs of school. Students show recognition of this important contribution by:
1) Treating administrative employees with respect and courtesy regardless of their administrative status or position; 
2) Being sensitive to the administrative employees’ schedules and workload in dealing with them; 
3) Properly elevating their concern to the administrative employee’s immediate superior should they feel they are not given a reasonable response on a particular request or dispute.

Student - University Relationship Conduct. The university environment serves and supports the mission of the institution. It must be treated with proper care and respect to ensure the health, safety, and security of members of the community. Thus, students show themselves to be socially responsible by practicing abiding by the rules and regulations:
1) They should wear their Identification Cards on campus and present the same whenever requested by University personnel. The student ID is a vital component of the University’s security system as it identifies the student as a bona fide member of the University. This constitutes a basic act of social responsibility given that campus safety and security are the responsibility of all members of the USC community. Thus, the ID is considered an official document to be treated with care and respect. It is NOT to be defaced, altered, or misused in any way, shape, or form. It is non-transferable, not lent or copied, nor discarded indiscriminately.
2) Students are required to wear the proper school uniform and/ or dress code according to the specifications and standards set by the University. Students are expected to be reasonably neat in appearance and maintain dignity in their manner of dressing, avoiding attire and decorum deemed inappropriate in a school environment. Students who intend to wear a school uniform of their preferred gender orientation must manifest their intent with the Gender and Development Section of OSFA and accomplish the Declaration Form prior to the start of the term.
3) Students are held responsible for the behavior of persons or outsiders who come into the campus on their behalf. Bodyguards or chaperones of students are not allowed inside the campus without the proper identification (ID) card issued by the OSFA and approved by the Office of Security and Safety. Even with their proper identification, bodyguards or chaperones (including drivers) are not allowed to loiter on campus. It is the student who is charged with an offense when such persons violate the Code of Conduct.
4) It is the responsibility of students to take care of school property and to help keep the university clean. Students who use or access the property of the school or of others without proper authorization shall be subjected to disciplinary measures. In case of damage to property, the student/s concerned must bear the cost of repair or replacement.
5) Students who bring vehicles into the campus should observe all campus traffic and parking regulations. This includes displaying the sticker and ensuring that their vehicles do not contribute to environmental and noise pollution.
6) Smoking is prohibited in the University premises.
7) All students share responsibility for the creation and maintenance of a healthy, safe, and drug-free campus. This includes compliance with policies and measures against bringing dangerous weapons and the use of dangerous drugs.

The following may apply for uniform exemption at OSFA prior to the start of the term: Persons with Disabilities (PWDs), Students with Special Medical Needs, Different Sexual Orientation as indicated in the declaration of orientation, Cultural Considerations, Working students for gainful employment, Married students, Pregnant Women, Cross-Enrollees, Second Coursers, On-the-Job Training (Internship)

Student and Community Relationship Conduct. In immersing themselves in community-related activities, the students should bear in mind that they represent the institution’s interest and involvement in establishing rapport with and support of community members. For these purposes, the students are expected to:
1) participate in community services and extracurricular activities by making active use of the knowledge and skills they have gained at the university; 
2) support the activities of other sectors, such as civil society, government, and parochial and religious organizations; 
3) behave responsibly in the use of communication and information technology, especially when engaging in any action that may impact the privacy, dignity, and/or rights of institutions, groups or individuals, including themselves.
4) conduct themselves properly and use the name of the University during off-campus activities, especially those that are cultural and educational in nature. Students should bear in mind that any of their off-campus activities should not directly or indirectly tarnish the name of the school, especially the values and principles it stands for. Students officially representing the University or any of its recognized or official sectors or units in activities involving external groups must obtain official approval from a person of authority or from the concerned department or office.
5) refrain from involving the University in their own personal financial dealings; conduct themselves at all times in such a way as not to cast aspersion or bring dishonor and discredit to the University or tarnish its good name and reputation. In this regard, the students should understand that the University has the right and authority to regulate their conduct and activities on or off campus when these conduct and activities affect the good order and welfare of the University or have a direct and immediate effect on the discipline or general welfare of the school. Creating fictitious account that does not carry the real name of the student but can be identified as a Carolinian is prohibited.

Netiquette for Carolinians. While social media platforms are avenue for communication and expression of learning, responsible Carolinians should be mindful of the proper conduct and use of these resources. Learners are expected to observe proper ethical values, be culturally sensitive and conscious of the risks associated with plagiarism, cyberbullying, use of abusive language and other related actions that are against the ethical and moral standards that will have a negative impact on their holistic formation and university reputation.
1) Attend an online activity properly groomed.
2) Be on time. It is highly suggested to come 10 minutes before the time to check if the equipment/gadgets work. 
3) Be respectful. When typing messages, avoid using all caps, exclamation points or enlarging fonts for emphasis. These are all equivalent to shouting. 
4) Be mindful of the grammar and spelling. 
5) Be polite. Address people properly. Do not interrupt when another person is talking. 
6) Be considerate when making remarks. Use appropriate language.
7) Choose a place where there is no distraction. 
8) Once the activity has started, be attentive to the speaker for the entire period and be participative. 
9) Turn on the camera for the whole duration of the activity. If the bandwidth is limited, ask the host to be excused from turning the camera on. 
10) Keep the mic muted unless it is one’s turn to speak.
11) Use the chat box only when necessary.


Topic 47: Carolinian Attire and Grooming

Carolinians are allowed to wear civilian clothing on wash days (Wednesday and Saturdays), Summer term and on upon request. One must reflect modesty and decency along with appearing professional and consistent with the University’s core values and identity. The following are considered inappropriate and are so not allowed:

Top wear that is not allowed:
1) Revealing clothing such as crop tops, see-through, tube-top, spaghetti straps, backless or sleeveless 
2) Shirts with lewd prints and designs contrary to the University’s mission and nature, specifically, those that are sexually suggestive, instigate violence, or contain offensive 
3) racial slurs, symbols, language, and comments. 
4) Plunging necklines and off-shoulder blouses. 
5) Mini and tight-fitting dresses

Bottom wear that is not allowed:
1) Miniskirts, short skirts, and shorts of any style (culottes, city shorts, cycling shorts) 
2) See-through bottoms showing the undergarments 
3) Knee-length pedal pushers that exposed the knee when seated 
4) Tattered/ripped jeans 
5) Leggings and tight-fitting attire

Footwear that is not allowed:
1) Clogs (crocs) 
2) Flat sandals without sling back 
3) Flip flops

Others that are not allowed:
1) Wearing of hanging earrings on the cartilage area (non-lobe) and ear stretchers not worn in a cultural context. 
2) Tattoos that contain violent designs and messages 
3) Ungroomed mustache/beard/facial hair 
4) Unnatural bright, fashioned, and fun hair colors 
5) Unkept long hair and dreadlocks


Topic 48: Progressive and Positive Discipline Policy

Discipline in schools is specifically mandated by the Constitution, which says "that all educational institutions shall teach the rights and duties of citizenship, strengthen ethical and spiritual values, develop moral character and personal discipline."

The Constitution requires all schools to be responsible in shaping the behavior of young people under their care. The framing of rules governing university-student relations, particularly on student discipline, is vital, not merely to the smooth and efficient operation of the institution, but to its very survival.

USC adapts a progressive and positive discipline policy. Through progressive and positive discipline, it acknowledges that whenever the student does things below his/her expected duties and responsibilities and/or behaves inappropriately, it is the duty of the whole school to discipline the student(s) by teaching, guiding, mentoring, and supporting an intrapersonal/interpersonal skill that a particular student lacks. It also lets them realize what behaviors are acceptable and/or appropriate and what behaviors are not. It is also showing them that their choices have consequences. Thus, teaching discipline needs trust, building relations, supporting students to improve their behavior and, hopefully, preventing inappropriate student behavior from happening again.

Punishment is only one technique of discipline and expulsion is reserved as a measure of last resort. On the other hand, employing alternative programs and practices that support student needs and hold students accountable, yet keep them engaged in the classroom, is highly encouraged because this leads to higher achievement and improved graduation rates.

More importantly, a progressive and positive discipline policy must adhere to the core values of the university. School policies and discipline recommendations must encourage academic learning and not hamper or impede academic engagement (Scientia); promote holistic character development and wellness by encouraging the student to do the right thing next time willfully due to personal enlightenment (intrinsic motivation) and not because of fear of sanction (extrinsic motivation) and by increasing then decreasing a student’s self-esteem and self-efficacy (Virtus); and contribute to developing a student’s altruistic and prosocial attitude/behavior, and/ or cultural sensitivity through service orientation (Devotio).

Thus, in using a progressive and positive discipline, the following should be taken into consideration and amidst careful deliberation: 1) The students’ stage of growth and development. 2) The nature, severity, and frequency of the offense/ inappropriate behavior. 3) The history and circumstances surrounding it. 4) The impact of the behavior on the school climate.

Within this context, more serious consequences may be considered for inappropriate behavior that escalates or is repeated. Providing students with the opportunity to reflect on their own actions and the impact of these actions is essential to student learning. A student’s behavior occurs in a broader context and can be changed over time. Thus, each decision on discipline is unique for each student. It will depend on the strengths and challenges of that student.

Therefore, a range of options to determine the most appropriate way to respond to each situation and help the student learn from his or her choices is considered. Depending on the case, the support or consequences will be given by the different persons of authority as follows but not limited to the student development mentors, teachers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or the President.

The discipline recommendations will include different supports and consequences. Supports could include:
1) A discipline conversation with the student by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the Student Development Mentors, Teachers, Guidance Counselors, Campus Priests and Ministers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or President; 
2) A parent - teacher/staff feedback and conferences by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the student development mentors, teachers, guidance counselors, campus priests and ministers, Department Chairs, Dean, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or the President; 
3) A review of expectations for the student’s behavior conducted by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the Student Development Mentors, Teachers, Guidance Counselors, Campus Priests and Ministers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or President. 
4) Formation sessions like counseling, moral and/or spiritual guidance, coaching, anger management, etc.; 
5) Attending prevention and/or intervention programs.

Consequences could include the following, depending on the gravity of the offense:
1) Writing a personal apology to the aggrieved/offended party; 
2) Doing an academic assignment or writing a paper; 
3) Mandatory work in the form of community service; 
4) Suspension, disqualification, or withdrawal of privileges (e.g., uniform exemptions, grant of car sticker, discounts, scholarships, etc.); 
5) Payment of the value of the property destroyed/damaged /lost or its replacement; 
6) Detention or suspension hours/programs with alternative academic requirements; 
7) Disciplinary probation with automatic suspension for the rest of the semester in case of any violation of the conditions imposed; 
8) Exclusion for a semester/s; 
9) Disqualification from receiving honors/awards at graduation; In the event that an awardee is found guilty of an offense or crime after the award has been given, the University shall withdraw the award. 
10) Conditional or non-issuance of certificate of good moral character; 
11) Payment of fines; 
12) Mandatory drug testing at the student’s expense (especially in cases related to dangerous drugs, substance abuse, or endangering behavior); 
13) Mandatory psychological/clinical assessment and compliance with the recommendations of an accredited specialist; 
14) Restriction against participation in school activities/further contact with aggrieved parties; 
15) Outright dismissal; 
16) Expulsion; 
17) Other penalties which may be set forth by the University.


Topic 49: University-Wide Discipline and Persons in Authority

All teachers, school officials, and other employees and persons in authority are bound to help enforce school policies. 

Minor to less serious offenses are handled by the student development mentors (SDMs). SDM(s) is a (are) faculty member(s) assigned in each department who is (are) in-charged in mentoring their students’ development and discipline. SDMs can only recommend certain support, sanctions, and penalties and needs approval by their respective academic chairperson. 

There are some minor to less serious offenses that will be handled by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members when it involves cases between departments of the same college. SDEVCOM can only recommend certain support, sanctions, and penalties and needs approval by their respective academic dean. 

Serious to very serious offenses are reported to the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO). After an initial assessment and evaluation, the campus SDO may recommend for the SDMs and/or SDEVCOM to handle the case or endorse it, and then convene the Student Discipline Committee. 

The Student Discipline Committee (SDC) is a body tasked to discuss and deliberate on the discipline recommendation of a case. It is composed of the head of the OSFA, a university lawyer, and a member ofthe student development board. The SDC can only recommend support, sanctions, and penalties. The recommendation will be acted upon by the Director of Student Services and approved by the Vice President concerned. In the conduct of its investigation, SDC will not adopt a trial-type proceeding. Cross-examination may be disallowed at its discretion. 

The Vice President concerned (dependent on whether the case is academic, property and safety, and/or financial in nature) decides and approves the recommendations endorsed by the Director of Student Affairs and Services Office regarding disciplinary matters. The VP’s decision on a student disciplinary case is final and can be executed through the Student Discipline Office.


Topic 50: Categories and Ranking of Offenses

A. Minor Offense 
Minor violations do not involve serious injury or harm, lack evidence of malice or premeditation, behaviors can be attributed to development or circumstances, and have little or no serious negative implications for the University or its members. Minor offenses are recorded in a student’s name, but do not prevent him/her from receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Although still recorded, the frequency of offense is refreshed every semester. Repeated minor violations in a semester, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. Minor offenses are given three (3) warnings: 
- First warning constitutes a Discipline Consultative Session (in accordance with our "Sultihi ako, maminaw ako" Program-Consultative Session/s).
- Second warning, the Student is now required to submit an apology letter before his/her school ID is returned. A strong warning is given to the student during the Discipline Consultative Session.
- Third warning serves as the Final Warning. The student is now informed of the consequences of his/her actions with varied sanctions according to the gravity of the offense committed.

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a minor offense. Depending on the frequency and the school of the student(s) involved, minor offenses are handled by the Student Development Mentors (SDMs) and by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members.
First offense - Discipline Conversation (Oral Warning) 
Second Offense - Discipline Conversation (Written Warning is given after which the student is required to make a written reply.) 
Third Offense - Discipline Conversation. See other disciplinary support & consequences. (Written Reply).

B. Less Serious Offense
Less serious offenses are acts that disrupt the order and are a threat to the security and safety of the school. A less serious offense does minimal physical injury and minimal harm to the honor and dignity of others but has no serious negative implication for the University or its members. Less serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name but do not prevent them from receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Although still recorded, the frequency of offense is refreshed every academic year. Repeated less serious offenses in an academic year, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. 

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a less serious offense. Depending on the frequency and the school of the student(s) involved, less serious offenses are handled by the Student Development Mentors (SDMs) and by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members. First offense 
First offense - Discipline Conversation. Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply. 
Second offense - Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.
Third offense - Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.

C. Serious Offense. 
Serious offenses are acts that do a greater threat or damage to the safety, property, honor, and dignity of another person and the school. Serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name during his/her stay in the University and may prevent him/herfrom receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Repeated serious offenses, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. 

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a serious offense. Serious offenses are handled by the campus student discipline office (SDO). After an initial assessment and evaluation, the campus SDO may recommend for the SDMs and/or SDEVCOM to handle the case or endorse it, and then convene the Student Discipline Committee.
For all offenses: Discipline Conversation (Written Reply). The chair, the dean, and the Parents/Guardians are informed. The Student Discipline Committee convened. See other disciplinary support & consequences. Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.

D. Very Serious Offense.
Very serious offenses are acts that do the greatest threat or damage to the safety, property, honor, and dignity of another person and the school. Very Serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name during his/her stay in the University and may prevent him/her from receiving a Certificate of Good Moral Character.
Step 1: The Chair of the Student Discipline Board (SDB) receives the case documents from the SDMC. 
Step 2: The Chair of the SDB furnishes copies of the case documents within 5 working days upon receipt thereof to all members of the committee for them to review, assess and study. 
Step 3: The SDB Chair convenes the members not more than 5 working days after furnishing copies of the case documents to the members of the SDB. 
Step 4: The SDB evaluates, assesses and reviews the findings of the case. 
Step 5: The SDB makes the final decision/judgement of the case. 
Step 6: The decision of the SDB shall become final and executory after 5 working days after the SDB has been convened. 
Step 7: The Student Discipline Officer facilitates the enforcement of the final decision

The enumeration of the offenses and their corresponding penalties in the table of offenses and penalties does not curtail the right of the University to pursue cases not listed in order to enforce discipline.

Any misconduct committed outside the University premises does not deprive the Student Discipline Office of its jurisdiction for as long as the misconduct involving a student can affect the good name or reputation of the University.

Composition of the Student Discipline Board (SDB) is as follows: Director of Student Services Chair, Student Discipline Officer – Secretariat, Student Discipline Mentor of the Complainant, Student Discipline Mentor of the Respondent, Legal Consultant, if needed.

In cases where the complainant/s is not satisfied with the decision, he/ she may file a written appeal to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The decision of the VPAA is no longer appealable.

The Chair, Dean, and Parents/Guardians are informed. The Student Discipline Committee is convened, after which a written document with all the attachments are kept in the SDO for proper filing with the utmost confidentiality. Any criminal offense will be forwarded to the legal authorities for further handling.


Topic 51: List of Offenses

The University’s right to act on the condemnable act or omission of a student is not limited to what is listed or mentioned in this list of offenses. Whatever is actionable in a court or quasi-judicial body is also actionable in the administrative tribunal of the University. If there is no written complaint, the Administration, on its initiative, will be the complainant and start the investigative proceedings.

Offenses related to uniform and grooming (Rank: A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Failure to wear the prescribed school uniform or dress code according to the specification and standards set by the University (A) 
2. Untidy appearance and/or inappropriate attire for a school environment (A) 
3. Wearing attire/school uniform according to their gender preference without approval/clearance from the Gender Development Officer at OSFA (B/C) 
4. Coming to school in a civilian attire, when allowed, that does not promote a dignified, decent and formal appearance, and decorum (B/C) 
5. Failure to present a uniform exemption (A/B) 
6. Taking off the school the uniform on campus except during class activities that require decent and formal attire (A/B) 
7. Wearing/moving around the campus in a PE uniform but outside of PE classes (A/B)
8. Coming to school with unkept or untidy haircut/ hairstyle (A/B) 
9. Exposure of body tattoos with offensive and obscene designs (A/B)

Offenses against security, safety, and order (Rank: A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Entering the University campus without a valid school identification card (ID) such as tailgating (A/B) 
2. Non-wearing of school identification card on campus (A) 
3. Use of two or more school ID or gate pass by whatever means or manner (A/B) 
4. Representing, wearing or using any uniform, insignia or other identifying marks of the University or any department or college without authorization for personal gain (B/C) 
5. Unauthorized access of computer files like hacking and other IT-related violations (B/C/D) 
6. Unauthorized collection of money, checks, or any other instrumentality of monetary value and/or embezzlement of funds (B/C/D) 
7. Entering the campus or off-campus sites under the influence of alcohol and prohibited substances (C/D) 
8. Bringing of intoxicated beverage in whatever quantity on campus (C/D) 
9. Engaging in an unrestrained drinking of alcoholic beverages with schoolmates or friends in school uniform outside the campus. (C/D) 
10. Possession of firearm, air gun, or similar gun replicas, sharp-bladed weapons, tear gas, firecrackers, pyrotechnics, explosive or miniature bombs inside the campus (D) 
11. Threatening to use these weapons to harm anybody inside the campus. (C/D)
12. Hazing as defined in RA No. 11053 or the Anti Hazing Law as an initiation rite or practice as prerequisite for admission into membership in a fraternity, sorority or organization by placing the recruit, neophyte or applicant in some embarrassing or humiliating situations such as forcing him/her to do menial, foolish tasks or activities or otherwise subjecting him/her to physical or psychological suffering or injury regardless where the hazing occurs. (D) 
13. Violation of parking regulations (A) 
14. Engaging in endangering behavior, defined as any action that might lead to loss of life or serious injury, whether intentionally or because of recklessness or gross negligence (as with removing fire alarms, tampering with fire extinguishers, sitting on ledges, dropping objects from buildings, refusing to conform to safety protocols, etc.) (A/B/C/D) 
15. Indiscriminate throwing of waste paper, candy wrappers, chewing gums, plastic cups, etc. on campus or spitting on floors or walls (A) 
16. Loitering or making excessive noise in corridors, stairways, or immediate vicinities during classes (A) 
17. Loud and disturbing arguments, shouting, or heckling that are offensive to the sensibilities of the school community, unrestrained laughter or loud talking inside or outside the classroom or in the corridors/ stairways and immediate vicinities that disrupt classes or academic activities. (A/B) 
18. Unauthorized use of cellular phones, iPods, or other communication gadgets inside the classroom while classes, examinations or other academic activities are going on. (A/B/C/D)
19. Bringing in or playing with any gambling paraphernalia and engaging in gambling activities inside the campus. (A/B) 
20. Smoking/vaping inside the campus and its immediate vicinity (B)
21. Deliberate disruption of classes, academic functions, or activities within University premises (A/B/C) 
22. Brawls, riots, hooliganism on or off campus (B/C/D) 
23. Instigating or participating in group activities, gatherings, rallies, and the like that result in stoppage or disruption of classes and/or other academic activities. (C/D) 
24. Causing panic or confusion that leads to the disruption of classes and other academic activities (C/D) 
25. Unauthorized rallies, barricading, picketing, preventing, or threatening any student from entering the school campus or attending classes, and/or school personnel from discharging their duties (C/D) 
26. Initiating or participating in activities contrary to law or public order (D) 
27. Subverting or defying policies and guidelines of any college department, office of the University, and CHED (C/D) 
28. Any act or omission punishable under the rules and regulations of the University or laws of the land even if the act was committed outside the school campus such as but not limited to possession of marijuana or drugs (RA 9165: Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002), smoking marijuana or using drugs, seriously assaulting another person, trespassing a private property and refusing to leave when requested to do so, conviction for contempt of court for disobeying a restraining order, being drunk and disorderly in the streets in violation of an ordinance,  unauthorized use of the name of teacher/s, school official/s as co-author of an article to assure its publication, posting of lewd, defamatory, indecent or libelous remarks or comments on any platform or any medium of expression, commission of violations of existing laws and/or ordinances (C/D)

Offense against persons (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Extortions, unauthorized solicitations, and other similar acts committed against other students, members of the faculty, and other members of the University (C/D) 
2. Oral defamation or slander in any platform or any medium of expression (B/C/D) 
3. Grave threats, intimidation, coercion against any member of the school community: administrators, faculty, non-teaching staff, students or visitors (C/D) 
4. Assault resulting in physical injury or damage to property (C/D) 
5. Sexual harassment (Refer to IRR on the Anti- Sexual Harassment Bill of 1995, and RA 9262) (D) 
6. Disrespecting or discourtesy of any member of the USC Community and its guests resulting in ridicule, embarrassment or humiliation or besmirched reputation, by and through any means and medium, such as but not limited to Facebook, social networking sites, or other sites on the internet or in any other platform (B/C/D) 
7. Acts of lasciviousness or other acts of misconduct of a sexual nature (C/D) 
8. Engaging in a pattern of conduct that vexes or compromises the physical and/or psychological wellbeing of a person, such as acts of harassment, stalking, coercion (B/C/D) 
9. Instigating and/or engaging in activities resulting in injury and/or moral damage to persons (C/D) 
10. Cyberbullying or any other act by word or deed that degrades or debases the dignity of a person (Refer to RA 10175: Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012) (C/D)

Offenses against property (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Unauthorized use of school facilities or equipment (B/C) 
2. Irresponsible use of school properties (B/C) 
3. Vandalism or destruction of properties of the University, or those belonging to any member of the administration, faculty, non-teaching staff, fellow students, or visitors while on campus (B/C) 
4. Tampering official announcements on bulletin boards, posting of notices or posters in non-designated areas or removing thereof without proper authorization (B/C) 
5. Posting and displaying on campus and its immediate vicinity, posters, pictures, banners or streamers with materials that are libelous, obscene, indecent, offensive to the feeling and moral sensitivity of persons, injurious to the good name of individuals or of the university, subversive or seditious. (B/C/D) 
6. Attempt to steal (C) 
7. Stealing (C/D)

Offenses involving dishonesty (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Borrowing or lending of USC ID card, gate pass, library card, official receipt or other relevant and official school documents for whatever purpose or intention; tampering one’s own or another student’s ID card and using it to gain entry to USC premises, whether damage was inflicted on any member of the USC academic community (B/C/D) 
2. Communicating with others during examination without permission from the teacher or proctor (A/B/C) 
3. Submitting another person’s work as one’s own (C/D) 
4. Cheating during any examination, quiz, or long test (including take home examination or written reports, assigned reports, reaction papers, and other similar materials required for submission) or any other academic requirements, including possession of leaked examination materials. (C/D) 
7. Letting somebody else take the examination in his/ her own behalf (in which case both shall be liable hereunder) (C/D)
8. Plagiarism, forgery, falsification, tampering, alteration or misuse of official school records, documents or credentials, or any other acts indicating fraud or misrepresentation (refer to RA 10173: Data Privacy Act of 2012) (C/D) 
9. Authorship, publication or circulation of false information about the University, its officials, members of the faculty, non-teaching personnel, or students (C/D) 
10. Lying, misrepresenting, and other acts of perjury committed during a formal disciplinary proceeding or other investigative proceedings. (C/D)

Offenses against public and religious morals (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Proselytizing, defined as attempting to convert others to one’s faith by attacking or denigrating the practices and beliefs of another, or by offering special inducements (B/C/D) 
2. Disrespect to national symbols (e.g., making a mockery of the national anthem) and any other similar infraction (B/C/D) 
3. Any act or omission punishable under the laws of the land (C/D) 
4. Adultery, concubinage, bigamy, and other immoral relationships which are against the laws of the land and/or teachings of the Catholic Church. (C/D) 
5. Manifesting vulgar or perverted behavior (verbal/ physical/social media) between students whether of the same or opposite sexes (C/D) 
7. Bringing, viewing, displaying or distributing pornographic materials on campus (either acting as a model/subject, agent, sponsor, or technical crew) or sending foul messages to anybody (student, faculty, employee) (C/D) 
8. Desecrating religious images and practices (C/D) 
9. Irreverent conduct in the chapel or during Angelus, Holy Mass, prayer or any other similar religious practice (B/C/D) 
10. Displaying publicly intimacy/affection that tends to offend the sensibilities of the school community (B/C/D)

Offenses against the University (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Posting derogatory remarks/unfounded comments that are detrimental to the name and prestige of the University in social media and other platforms (C/D)
2. Unauthorized use of the name of the University for personal and financial gains, scamming, and other means to defraud other entities or individuals (C/D)
3. Alteration/falsification of University documents (C/D)
4. Unauthorized use of University seal for business and other commercial use (C/D)



Topic 52: Clearance and Hold Orders

Clearance to enroll every semester or to leave the University at any time, requires satisfaction of pending academic and non-academic obligations. Students who have not resolved their disciplinary cases or have inadequately did not follow the recommendation of support and sanctions will not be allowed to proceed with enrollment, transfer, or graduation. The signature of the Student Development Mentor and the campus Student Discipline Officer are part of the requirement for clearance.


Topic 53: Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process

Below are the Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process for minor offenses and less serious offenses:
Step 1: The complainant submits a letter of complaint/ incident report addressed to his/her Student Discipline Mentor (SDM). 
Step 2: The student respondent, upon the summons by his/her SDM, answers within 3 days upon receipt of the complaint filed against him/her. 
Step 3: The SDMs of the complainant and respondent assess the gravity of the offense and call the student respondent for a discipline conversation. Some witnesses may be invited if needed. 
Step 4: The two SDMs after having determined the gravity of the offense committed may recommend the interventions and sanctions to be endorsed by the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO) and approved by the Head of the Office Student Formation and Activities. 
Step 5: If the case is resolved within the level of the SDMs, the student respondent signs an agreement wherein it is stated that he/she promises not to commit any infraction again.
Step 6: In instances when the case cannot be resolved at the level of the SDMs, it is elevated to the Student Discipline Mentors Committee (SDMC). The case documents are forwarded to the SDMC not more than 5 days after the whole proceeding.

Below are the Guidelines for Ensuring Discipline and Due Process for serious offenses and very serious offenses:
Step 1: For cases identified outright as serious or very serious, the complainant submits a letter of complaint/ incident report addressed to the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO), who is the Chair of the SDMC. 
Step 2: The student respondent, upon the summons by the SDO, answers within 3 days upon receipt of the complaint filed against him/her. 
Step 3: The SDO informs the members of the SDMC of the date set for the case conference. The case conference is scheduled not more than 10 working days after receipt of the case documents/ complaint filed. 
Step 4: The SDMC calls the student complaint and respondent for a case conference. Some witnesses may be invited if needed. The case conference before SDMC shall be a summary in nature and cross examination is not essential. However, the SDMC should ensure that the following standards required by due process in disciplinary cases are satisfied: The respondent should have been informed in writing of the nature and cause of the accusation/s; The respondent should have been granted the right to answer the charged against her/him; The respondent should be informed of the evidences against him/her; The respondent is given the right to adduce evidence on his/ her own behalf; and the evidence should be considered by the SDMC.
Step 5: The SDMC after having determined the gravity of the offense committed may recommend the intervention and sanctions to be endorsed by the Head of the Office of Student Formation and Activities. 
Step 6: Once the intervention and sanctions have been approved, these will be enforced by the SDO. Both the complainant and respondent will be given copies of the approved intervention and sanctions. 
Step 7: In instances when the case cannot be resolved at the level of the SDMC, it is elevated to the Student Discipline Board (SDB). The case documents are forwarded to the SDB not more than 5 days after the conclusion of the whole proceeding.
The composition of the Student Discipline Mentors Committee (SDMC) includes the following: Chair of Student Discipline Officer, Student Discipline Mentor of the Complaint, Student Discipline Mentor of the Respondent, Student Representative of the Collegiate Council of the Complainant, Student Representative of the Collegiate Council of the Respondent, and Head of Office of Student Formation and Activities.


Topic 54: Policy for Pregnant Women: 

Pregnant students will be permitted to continue with their studies on the condition that their enrollment in the university will not pose health and safety risks given their health condition. In this regard, the school may require the student concerned to present medical clearance and such other documents as may be rendered necessary for the purpose.


Topic 55: Jurisdiction

The USC Administration, through the Office of Student Formation and Activities – Student Discipline Section, has jurisdiction over all cases involving the discipline of students. A student who is charged with an offense, and refuses to heed the summons to appear before the investigating body set up by the administration is deemed to have waived his/her right to present evidence/s. The case shall then be decided based on the complaint and the evidence/is presented. Misconduct committed outside the University, consequently affecting his/her status as a student, is covered with the policy on discipline. In case of subsequent enrollment of such a student, he/she will have to answer the charges filed and lodged against him/her.


Topic 56: Sanctions

Pursuant to the Manual of Regulations for Private Higher Education, the following disciplinary sanctions for Serious Offenses or violations of school regulations may be applied to an erring student:

Suspension is a penalty in which the school is allowed to deny or deprive an erring student of attendance in classes for a period not exceeding 20% of the prescribed class days for the term. The decision of the school in every case involving the penalty of suspension which exceeds 20% of the prescribed school days for a term shall be forwarded to the CHED Regional Office within 10 days from the termination of the investigation of each case.

Preventive Suspension of the student under investigation may be imposed even before the hearing of his/her case has commenced. The respondent is not permitted inside the school premises if there is strong evidence of guilt and the moral conviction of the Discipline Committee that the continued stay or presence is a risk or an imminent danger to life and property in school. The preventive suspension shall not exceed 10% of the prescribed school days.


Topic 57: Student Organization Registration and Supervision

A student organization is an organized group of students sharing common interests, objectives, philosophy, and operational activities not contrary to laws, morals and University rules and regulations. Furthermore, a student organization must be non-partisan, non-political in all political exercises (within and outside the university). Such formation of student organizations is regarded by the University as a healthy sign of growing social awareness and concern and as an exercise of students’ freedom of association. This freedom, however, entails the responsibility to respect the freedom of others and to uphold the dignity of the student body as a whole. The University therefore, recognizes the student organizations as among the venues for: 
1) the development of students’ talents, potentials and capabilities; 
2) students’ greater awareness of their rights, duties and responsibilities; 
3) wholesome social and recreational activities;
4) the realization of the university’s mission statement and academic aims.

The student organizations are broadly categorized into two, namely: 
1) Co-curricular – which are school/department-based and whose membership is automatic upon enrollment in a particular course or college. 
2) Extra-curricular - which are initiated and organized by students to accommodate specific interests, concerns or visions, e.g. socio-civic, cultural, religious, athletic, professional service clubs, etc. and whose membership is voluntary.

To complement and enhance the learning process, students are allowed to initiate and organize activities which may be co-curricular or extra-curricular in nature. Schools, departments, and student organizations, in coordination with the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), manage these activities. The activities must be held within the academic calendar, and should not be scheduled a week before and during major examinations and institutional celebrations unless the activities are intrinsically related therewith.

Registration and Supervision: The Student Activities Officer shall have general supervision of all activities of registered student organizations as well as the student body. All student organizations, including the Supreme and School Student Councils, shall register or renew their registration at OSFA at the beginning of the school year, per CMO 9, series of 2013 (Article VIII, Section 21) and CMO 8, series of 2021. They shall accomplish the requirements asstated in the Student Organization Manual. Among others, the said requirements are the Constitution and/or By-laws or its equivalent, Program of Activities Form, Officers’ and Faculty Adviser’s Data Sheet, list of members and endorsements of authorized university officers or mother clubs for affiliated organizations. Upon compliance with the aforementioned requirements, student organizations shall then be entitled to official recognition by the University through OSFA.

Frequently asked questions regarding student organizations:

Many of the Officers in my organization are no longer returning. What is the process to be followed for appointing or electing officers for student organizations? Check your Constitution and By-Laws for the appointment or election procedures. If it is not feasible to follow through, the suggestion is to function with the human resources you have for as long as the goals of the organization can be met. If the goals cannot be met, the suggestion is to reduce the goals to only its most essential in carrying out the purpose of the organization. All student organizations, recognized or unrecognized by the Office of Student Affairs, are recognized by USC-SSC with no rigorous requirements through the Conglomeration of Student Organizations (CSO). You will be assisted as soon as organization-related problems are present and noticed. You may ask for assistance from USC-SSC for meeting the goals of your organization. 

How can student organizations collect funds? For Co-curricular Organizations, you may request for your fees to be included in the collection reflected on ISMIS through your Department. For Extracurricular Organizations, you may employ your prefered method of collection. For School Councils, upon coordination with the Dean, you have access to fees that may already be included in the semestral fees of the students (e.g. for SAS Council, previously "SAS Program Activities Fee"). The suggestion is to first plan out your Calendar of Activities and then determine the most considerate budget possible as to not burden the students with more fees.	


Topic 58: Educational Tours and Field Trips

In the context of learning, students are provided with the opportunity to augment classroom learning through out-of-classroom activities. These activities are governed by CMO 63, series of 2017 (Policies and Guidelines of Local Off-Campus Activities), and CMO 01, series of 2023 (Amendment of Article IV.E of the earlier mentioned CMO) to ensure security and safety of students during the conduct of the activities; thus, they shall file an application at the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Student organizations shall apply at the Office of Student Formation and Activities. In some cases, international trips may be allowed and CMO 26, series of 2015 shall govern and apply. The above-mentioned guidelines are subject to updates that may be provided by CHED.


Topic 59: Student Support and Services Quality Policy

The University of San Carlos has an ISO 9001:2015 that established and certified a quality management system for the provision of student support services for student welfare, student development, and institutional student programs. The interactive and popularized version of such a system is "Caloy". Students can access these Caloy kiosks for further information regarding the services and programs outlined in the directory. These are strategically located in different buildings in the University.

Quality Policy: In support of academic instruction, the Student Support and Services System of the University of San Carlos is committed to delivering quality services and programs essential in the formation of Carolinian graduates to become productive citizens of the country and the world.

The support units are committed to continuously improving their services, processes, and our Quality Management System for the enhancement of the student experience in the University, which may require the participation of the suppliers and other external providers of processes and services. These commitments are founded on the following priorities:
- Achievement of outcomes defined in KRA 4 of CHED CMO 46 relating to student quality, diversity of the population, rate of completion, employment rate, quality of formation and; level of competency, leadership qualities, level of empowerment of graduates. 
- Operation of processes in accordance with the administrative and financial policies of the university.
- Enhancement of support to academic units in the preparations for program accreditation.
- Sustained compliance of our Quality Management System to International Standards.
- Managed organizational knowledge, recognition of external factors and production of creative solutions using the knowledge and skills of all within the organization.


Topic 60: Directory of Student Support Services and Programs Part 1

The Athletics Office caters queries and concerns regarding the following: tryouts, privileges, booking of sports facilities, policies regarding sports events, rental rates of sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and tennis court. For inquiries and concerns regarding tryouts, privileges, booking of sports facilities, policies regarding sports events, rental rates of sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and tennis court, contact the Athletic Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 523, or through the following persons and emails: Fr. Adriano Ocariza (acocariza@usc.edu.ph), Marvin Avergonzado (mnavergonzado@usc.edu.ph), Patrick Philipp Gamaliel Uno (pguno@usc.edu.ph).

The Campus Ministry Office caters queries regarding the following: Liturgical Services (Daily Masses, Sunday Masses, First Friday Mass, Novena Masses, Mass for the Dead), Prayer Intentions (Mass Intentions and Mass Sponsorship), Sacraments (Anointing and Confession), Blessing (House and Office), Spiritual Direction and Counselling, Vocation and Mission Animation, Faith Sharing, Retreat and Recollection Giving, Lector and Altar Servers Training, Basic Bible Seminar, JPIC, and Arnold Janssen Spirituality Workshop. The Campus Ministry Office is located under St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Chapel in Talamban Campus, and 3rd Floor Dingman Building in Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Liturgical Services (Daily Masses, Sunday Masses, First Friday Mass, Novena Masses, Mass for the Dead), Prayer Intentions (Mass Intentions and Mass Sponsorship), Sacraments (Anointing and Confession), Blessing (House and Office), Spiritual Direction and Counselling, Vocation and Mission Animation, Faith Sharing, Retreat and Recollection Giving, Lector and Altar Servers Training, Basic Bible Seminar, JPIC, and Arnold Janssen Spirituality Workshop, contact the Campus Ministry Office through the following: Office of the University Chaplain (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 251, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Talamban Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 135, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 540/541, Email: chaplaindc@usc.edu.ph)

The Community Extension Services (CES) Office caters queries regarding the following: CES activities, CES events, CES programs, CES projects, CES forms, CES application. The Community Extension Services (CES) Office offers the following transformative programs: Mission Exposure Program, Research and Development Program, and CES Carolinian Volunteers program. For inquiries and concerns regarding CES activities, CES events, CES programs, CES projects, CES forms, CES application, Mission Exposure Program, Research and Development Program, and CES Carolinian Volunteers program, contact the Community Extension Services (CES) office through landline (032) 2300100 local 549, or through its head, Bonifacio N. Mercado Jr. (bnmercado@usc.edu.ph, ces@usc.edu.ph). The Community Extension Services (CES) office is located at the 2nd floor of USC Mission Center, Fr. Ludwig Lehmeier Building, Downtown Campus.

The Mission Exposure Program helps the students to understand the importance of context in pursuing development, demonstrate devotion to work for the poor and those in the margins, define the contexts of varied communities where mission exposure is done, and describe the challenges confronting the members of the community.

The Research and Development Program helps the students to understand the RDEPO framework and intended outcomes of the university, understand the ethical practices in research, and conduct studies the results of which may serve as bases for developing extension programs and projects.

The CES Carolinian Volunteers helps the students to show the talents and skills he/she can share in serving as Carolinian volunteer, share one’s leadership skills in collaboration with other volunteers, perform the essential skills to work with and in teams, and undergo actual volunteering work.

The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) caters queries and concerns regarding the following: Online interview for new students, Counseling appointment, Psycho-educational activities, Shiftee interview, Exit interviews, Complete withdrawal interview, referral, Psychological testing, Consultations, and Appraisal. The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) also offers the following programs: Mental health Program, Career Development Program, and Peer facilitator Program. For inquiries and concerns regarding online interview for new students, Counseling appointment, Psycho-educational activities, Shiftee interview, Exit interviews, Complete withdrawal interview, referral, Psychological testing, Consultations, Mental health Program, Career Development Program, and Peer facilitator Program, contact the Counseling and Development Center.

The main office of the Counseling and Development Center (CDC) is located at the Main Hallway, Ground Floor, Fr. Arthur Dingman Building immediately next to the Information Office, Downtown Campus (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 554). The Satellite CDC Offices for Talamban Campus are as follows: Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for School of Engineering (Ms. Lilybeth Requilme - lprequilme@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Santos Camomot - sgcamomot@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Gilbert Abejar - gpabejar@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 105), Second Floor Philip van Engelen (SAS) Building for the School of Arts and Sciences (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 142), Second Floor Robert Hoeppner (Nursing) Building for School of Healthcare Professions (Ms. Teresa Alquezola - tsalquezola@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 134), Right side of the Lobby Area in School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (SAFAD) Building for School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (Ms. Cheryl M. Lao - cmlao@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 215).

The Dormitory caters queries regarding the following: Dorm room availment, Room accommodation and rates, Dorm reservation fee, Payment for dorm changes, Unblocking of dorm residents, and Residents status in the dorm. The Dormitory is located across the Science, Mathematics, and Education (SMED) Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Dorm room availment, Room accommodation and rates, Dorm reservation fee, Payment for dorm changes, Unblocking of dorm residents, and Residents status in the dorm, contact the Dormitory through landline (032) 2300100 local 271, or its head, Teresita R. Libod-libod (trlibodlibod@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section caters queries regarding the following: Online payments, verification of payment channels, verification of online payments and transactions, wire transfer details, payments for testing fees, payments for good moral character, and payments outside tuition fees. For inquiries and concerns regarding the Online payments, verification of payment channels, verification of online payments and transactions, wire transfer details, payments for testing fees, payments for good moral character, and payments outside tuition fees, contact the Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section through landline (032) 2300100 local 173/616, or through email (offsitecol@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section caters queries regarding the following: Tuition fees, privileges and discounts, family and sibling discounts, full payment discounts, same family privilege, credit memos provided by the Scholarship Office for tuition fee subsidy, Accounting Clearance, Assessment Queries, Student refund on admissions withdrawal, and Promissory Note Assistance. The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section is located in the 2nd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building, Talamban Campus; and Ground Floor Arthur Dingman Building, Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Tuition fees, privileges and discounts, family and sibling discounts, full payment discounts, same family privilege, credit memos provided by the Scholarship Office for tuition fee subsidy, Accounting Clearance, Assessment Queries, Student refund on admissions withdrawal, and Promissory Note Assistance, contact the, contact the Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section through landline (032) 2300100 local 162/552 and email (assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph).

The Health Services Office caters queries regarding the following: Request for online and onsite health consultation and referral, Request for Medical Certificate for School Related Activities and Concerns, Physical and dental examination for freshmen and transferees, First Aid for emergency cases, Starter doses for common illnesses (over-the-counter medications), and Request for Letter of Authorization (LOA) for students who sustained accident injuries. The Health Services Office also offers the Healthy Student Lifestyle program which provides different health educational activities that engage students in healthy lifestyle practices which promote health and prevent illnesses. The Health Services Office is located in the Clinic besides the Business Administration Department, Downtown Campus, and Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for Talamban Campus. For inquiries and cocerns regarding Request for online and onsite health consultation and referral, Request for Medical Certificate for School Related Activities and Concerns, Physical and dental examination for freshmen and transferees, First Aid for emergency cases, Starter doses for common illnesses (over-the-counter medications), and Request for Letter of Authorization (LOA) for students who sustained accident injuries, contact the Health Services Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 103/546, or through email (healthservices@usc.edu.ph). The contact persons for Health Services Office are Elena Plazl Pasuelo and Rennel Joseph Toremotcha for Downtown Campus, and Sheila Fatima Fernandez and Romela Arias for Talamban Campus.

The Internal Audit Office caters queries regarding the charges for petition and tutorial classes of the undergraduate students. The Internal Audit Office is located at the Ground Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding the charges for petition and tutorial classes of the undergraduate students, contact the Internal Audit Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 280/281, or through email (internalaudit@usc.edu.ph).


Topic 61: Directory of Student Support Services and Programs Part 2

The Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) caters queries regarding the following: ISMIS issues, ISMIS accounts, IT Helpdesk, Email, RFID, Canvas, USC Emails, and USC Google Workspace. The IRMO is located at the Basement Floor of Arthur Dingman Building in Downtown Campus and 3rd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding ISMIS issues, ISMIS accounts, IT Helpdesk, Email, RFID, Canvas, USC Emails, and USC Google Workspace, contact the Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) through landline (032) 2300100 local 107/506 and email (irmoacs@usc.edu.ph).

The USC Library caters queries regarding the following: Unreturned books, Unsettled library fines, Borrowing of books, Status of books, and Access to Online Resources and Services. The USC Library is located in the Josef Baumgartner Learning Resource Center (JB-LRC) of Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Unreturned books, Unsettled library fines, Borrowing of books, Status of books, and Access to Online Resources and Services, contact the USC Library through landline (032) 2300100 local 198 or through the following persons and emails: Sharleen G. Ramos (sgramos@usc.edu.ph), Divina Tenorio (dctenorio@usc.edu.ph), Janice Berdin (jfberdin@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement caters queries regarding the following: Scholarships, USC Student Financial Assistance Program and Sponsors, Scholarship Application Form, Procedure and Requirements, Scholarship Confirmation, Release of Allowances for Scholars, Status of Previlege, Balance, Delay of Payment, Letter-Explanation for Deficiency in Grades, Employment Opportunities, Internship Opportunities, Partner Companies, Alumni matters, and Alumni ID for Fresh Graduates. For inquiries and concerns regarding Scholarships, Student Financial Assistance Program and Sponsors, Scholarship Application Form, Procedure and Requirements, Scholarship Confirmation, Release of Allowances for Scholars, contact Christine Y. Alpis (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 276/406, Email: scholarship@usc.edu.ph). For inquiries and concerns regarding Alumni Affairs and Alumni ID, contact Ferdinand S. Boncayao (Email: fsboncayao@usc.edu.ph and alumni@usc.edu.ph). For inquiries and concerns regarding Job Placement such as Employment Opportunities, Internship Opportunities, and Partner Companies, contact Fe C. Salva (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 547, Email: fcsalva@usc.edu.ph and jobplacement@usc.edu.ph).

The External Relations and Internationalization office (ERIO) caters queries regarding the following: International Students, International Student Transferees, Filipino graduates from Abroad, and Dual citizenship students graduating in the Philippines and abroad. The External Relations and Internationalization Office is located in the 2nd Floor of the Law Building besides the Political Science Department Office, Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding International Students, International Student Transferees, Filipino graduates from Abroad, and Dual citizenship students graduating in the Philippines and abroad, contact the External Relations and Internationalization Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 552 or through the following persons and emails - Director: Ms. Brenette Abrenica (ext_relations@usc.edu.ph), International Students Liaison officer: Ms. Alma A. Trinidad (aatrinidad@usc.edu.ph).

The National Service Training Program (NSTP) office caters queries regarding the following: Request for Serial Number, Emergency Response Trainings, University Earthquake Drill and Fire Drill, Safety Preparedness programs, Information Services for Disaster Risk Reduction Management Program. The National Service Training program (NSTP) office is located near the St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Church in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Request for Serial Number, Emergency Response Trainings, University Earthquake Drill and Fire Drill, Safety Preparedness programs, Information Services for Disaster Risk Reduction Management Program, contact the National Service Training Program (NSTP) Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 159 or through the officer in charge, Ms. Emma E. Sema (eeselma@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Recruitment and Admission caters queries regarding the following: Admissions, Admission Requirements, Validation of Admission Requirements, Program Offerings, College Application, College Admission Examinations, Updating of Online Personal Data Sheet. The Office of Recruitment and Admissions is located in the main lobby of Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concernsregarding Admissions, Admission Requirements, Validation of Admission Requirements, Program Offerings, College Application, College Admission Examinations, Updating of Online Personal Data Sheet, contact the Office of Recruitment and Admissions through landline (032) 2300100 local 521 or through email of the admissions officer: admissionsoff@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of the Registrar caters queries regarding the following: Unblocking Clearance, Clearance for Returnees, Transfer Credentials, Transcript of Records, Advising in Petition and Tutorial Classes, Overload Courses, Simultaneous Enrollment of courses, Tagging to new program for shiftees, Updating of ISMIS account for returnees, and Accreditation of courses. The Office of the Registrar is located 100 meters straight ahead of the Gate 3 entrance in Talamban Campus.

All concerns to the registrar should be addressed through email. For queries and concerns regarding accreditation of courses, email bdano@usc.edu.ph for School of Healthcare Professions (SHCP), School of Law and Governance (SLG), and School of Arts and Sciences (SAS), kmmracuya@usc.edu.ph for School of Architecture, Fine Arts, and Design (SAFAD), School of Engineering (SOE), and School of Education (SED), for School of Business and Economics, cdgomez@usc.edu.ph for Department of Accountancy and Department of Hospitality and Tourism, and lldeligero@usc.edu.ph for Department of Business Administration and Department of Economics. For queries and concerns regarding unlocking clearance, email rfmeneses@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding clearance for returnees, email registrar@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding transfer credential and transcript of records, email recordssection@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding advising in petition and tutorial courses, overload, simultaneous enrollement of courses, tagging to new program for shiftees, updating of ISMIS account for returnees, email njttiu@usc.edu.ph. For other concerns directed towards the Office of the Registrar, email registrar@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of Security and Safety caters queries regarding the following: Motor vehicle pass stickers (MVPS), Campus Entry Request, Classroom and facility utilization monitoring, Lost and Found Items, Incident reports, Security CCTV Footages monitoring, Information Services and assistance (office location and schedule of offices). The Office of Security and Safety is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus, and Ground Floor of Arthur Dingman Building (Besides the Office of Recruitment and Admissions) in Downtown Campus. FOr inquiries and concerns regarding Motor vehicle pass stickers (MVPS), Campus Entry Request, Classroom and facility utilization monitoring, Lost and Found Items, Incident reports, Security CCTV Footages monitoring, Information Services and assistance (office location and schedule of offices), contact the Office of Security and Safety can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 169/584 or through the following contact persons and emails - Talamban Campus: Mr. Romeo Suganob and Mr. Dominador Bautista (securitytc@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus: Mr. Elmer Carungay (securitydc@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) caters queries regarding the following: Student Discipline Formation Programs, Request for Certificate of Good Moral Character, Confiscated School IDs, School ID Replacement, Transferee and Returnee Students Interview and Clearance, School Uniform Concerns, Uniform Exemption Application, Gender and Development Programs, Student Organizations, Student Councils, Carolinian Leadership Program, Carolinian Gender Equity Program, Agak-Amuma Program, Posters for Posting, Approval of Activities for Student Organizations, Registration of Student Organizations. The Office of Student Formation and Activities is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building (across the Clinic) in Talamban Campus, Main Lobby (facing Accountancy Department) in Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Student Discipline Formation Programs, Request for Certificate of Good Moral Character, Confiscated School IDs, School ID Replacement, Transferee and Returnee Students Interview and Clearance, School Uniform Concerns, Uniform Exemption Application, Gender and Development Programs, Student Organizations, Student Councils, Carolinian Leadership Program, Carolinian Gender Equity Program, Agak-Amuma Program, Posters for Posting, Approval of Activities for Student Organizations, and Registration of Student Organizations, contact the Office of Student Formation and Activities via landline (032) 2300100 local 102/592, or through the following persons and emails – Student Discipline Officer – Mr. Lolito Belonguel (lsbelonguel@usc.edu.ph), Student Activities Officer – Ms. Lizaneth Bustillo (lsbustillo@usc.edu.ph), Gender and Development Officer – Ms. Jasmin Owacan (jeowacan@usc.edu.ph), Head of OSFA – Ms. Catherine Algoso (csalgoso@usc.edu.ph). 

The Office of the Performing Arts Group caters concerns regarding Application for Membership, Trainings, and Schooling Privilege for Performing Arts. The Office of the Performing Arts Group is located in the Gym of Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Application for Membership, Trainings, and Schooling Privilege for Performing Arts, contact the Office of the Performing Arts Group through the Coordinator, Golda Lisi B. Villahermosa (Email: glbvillahermosa@usc.edu.ph). The Choristers Music Director is Roberto G. del Rosario (Email: rgdelrosario@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 524). The Dance Troupe Choreographer is Jose Miguel T. Cabasagan (Email: jmtcabasagan@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 572). The Theatre Guild Director is Mary Ann B. Lumacang (Email: mablumacang@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 593).

The Semper Fidelis, which means "Always Faithful", is the is the official graduate yearbook of the University of San Carlos. The annual publication is a testament of the hard-work and determination of Carolinians for successfully hurdling their academic journeys and of their readiness to conquer the professional world ahead of them. The official email of the Semper Fidelis Committee is semperfidelis@usc.edu.ph. 



Topic 62: Directory of Academic Programs and Departments Part 1

The Department of Accountancy offers the following programs: BS Accountancy, BS Management Accounting, MS in Accountancy Major In Management Accounting. The Department of Accountancy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 513, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Challoner A. Matero, CPA (camatero@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Mary Anne B. Jamisola-Adriano, JD, CPA (majamisola@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Venus M. Branzuela (vmbranzuela@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Anthropology, Sociology and History (DASH) offers the following programs: BA Anthropology, MA Anthropology, Certificate Course in Cebuano Heritage Studies and Conservation Management, and Certificate Course in Sustainable Community Development. The Department of Anthropology, Sociology and History (DASH) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 139, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Leny G. Ocasiones (lgocasiones@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Angela June N. Rosal (dashsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Architecture offers the following programs: BS Architecture, BS Interior Design, Bachelor of Landscape Architecture, Master of Architecture (majors in Interior Architecture, Urban Design, Architectural Science, and Landscape Architecture), and Master in Urban Planning. The Department of Architecture can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 208, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Ar. Adrian I. Yap (aiyap@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. Jessyl Pestaño (archdept@usc.edu.ph), Coordinator for Architecture Graduate Programs: Ar. Robert B. Malayao (rbmalayao@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Biology offers the following programs: BS Biology, BS Marine Biology, BS Environmental Science, MS Biology, MS Marine Biology, MS Environmental Science, and PhD Biology (with tracks Bioscience, Marine Biology, and Environmental Science. The Department of Biology can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 156, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Jonie C. Yee, PhD (biodept@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Virginia P. Bejer (uscbiologydept@gmail.com).

The Department of Business Administration (DBA) offers the following programs: BS Business Administration (major in Marketing Management, Operations Management, Human Resource Management, Financial Management), BS Entrepreneurship, and BS Executive Resource Management. The Department of Business Administration (DBA) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 528, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Angelo O. Burdeos, MBA, MM (aoburdeos@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Ethel D. Catamco, DBA (ehdicdican@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. April Cardoza (basec@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Entrepreneurship is Dr. Roberto H. Visitacion (rhvisitacion@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Chemical Engineering (DChE) offers the following programs: BS Chemical Engineering. The Department of Chemical Engineering (DChE) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 255, or through its chair, Camila Flor Y. Lobarbio (chedept@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Chemistry offers the following programs: BS Chemistry, MS Chemistry, PhD. The Department of Chemistry can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 157, or through its chair, Dr. Brian John Sarno (bisarno@usc.edu.ph)

The Department of Civil Engineering (DCE) offers the following programs: BS Civil Engineering, MS Civil Engineering (major in Structural Engineering, Water Resources and Environment), Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering (major in Structural Engineering and Water Resources and Environment). The Department of Civil Engeering (DCE) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 260, or through its chair, Ricardo L. Fornis (rlfornis@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature (DCLL) offers the following programs: BA Communication major in Media, BA English Language Studies, BS Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing, MA Applied Linguistics, MA Literature. The Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature (DCLL) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 143, or through the following persons and emails – Chair: Kenneth G. Opina (comlanglitdept@usc.edu.ph), Coordinator: Mary Ann P. Malimas (mapmalimas@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Jenny Rose Ruizo (dcllsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Computer, Information Sciences and Mathematics (DCISM) offers the following programs: BS Computer Science, BS Information Technology, BS Information Systems, BS Applied Mathematics, MS Information Technology, MS Mathematics, PhD Information Technology. The Department of Computer, Information Sciences and Mathematics (DCISM) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 148/149/150/158 or through the following persons and emails - Chair:  Angie M. Ceniza-Canillo, PhD (amceniza@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Jannua Mary Arnado (dcissec@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Information Systems is Mr. Glenn B. Pepito (gbpepito@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Information Technology is Mr. Gran G. Sabandal (ggsabandal@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Computer Science is Mr. Archival Sebial (ajsebial@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Math is Dr. Katrina E. Belleza-Fuentes (kebelleza@usc.edu.ph). The OJT and CES coordinator for DCISM is Mr. Chris Ray Belarmino (cbelarmino@usc.edu.ph) and Mr. Khent Dela Paz (kldelapaz@usc.edu.ph)

The Department of Computer Engineering (DCpE) offers the following programs: BS Computer Engineering, MS Computer Engineering (with Tracks Computer Networks, Software Engineering, Digital Hardware System). The Department of Computer Engineering (DCpE) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 263 or through the following persons and emails – Chair: Antoniette Mondigo-Cañete (amcanete@usc.edu.ph), Graduate Program Coordinator: Philip Virgil B. Astillo (pvbastillo@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Economics offers the following programs: BS Economics, MA Economics. The Department of Economics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 550/551, or through its chair, Jan Lorenzo G. Alegado, MS (jlgalegado@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Education offers the following programs: Bachelor of Secondary Education with Specialization in Early Childhood Education – Montessori Education, MA Science Education (major in Physics, Chemistry, Biology), MA Mathematics Education, MA Education (major in Special Education, Montessori Education, Physical Education, English Language Teaching, Religious Education), PhD Science Education (major in Physics, Chemistry, Biology), PhD Education (major in Educational Administration, Research and Evaluation, Curriculum ad Instruction). The Office of the School of Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 212/232, or through the following persons and emails – Dean: Richard R. Jugar, PhD (rrjugar@usc.edu.ph), Dean Secretary: Diane Honoridez (dyhonoridez@usc.edu.ph), Internationalization Coordinator: Rita May P. Tagalog, EdD-ISRM (mptagalog@usc.edu.ph), Graduate Studies Coordinator: Rolando V. Obiedo, PhD (rvjobiedo@usc.edu.ph). The Department of Teacher Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 146, or through the following persons and emails  Chair: Monell John F. Canizares, Ph.D. (mjfcanizares@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Golda Lisi B. Villahermosa (glbvillahermosa@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Bernadette M. Andres (bmandres@usc.edu.ph).


Topic 63: Directory of Academic Programs and Departments Part 2

The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (DEEE) offers the following programs: BS Electronics Engineering, BS Electrical Engineering, MS Electronics Engineering (major in Microelectronics, Instrumentation and Control, Computers and Communications), MS Electrical Engineering. The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (DEEE) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 283, or through its chair, Engr. Joseph Karl G. Salva (jkgsalva@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Fine Arts (DFA) offers the following programs: Bachelor of Fine Arts (major in Advertising Arts, Cinema, fashion Design, Painting), MA Cinema Studies. The Department of Fine Arts (DFA) can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 209, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Mary Felma A. Alino, PhD (mfaalino@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Josephine Mejares (kmejares@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of General Education (DGEM) does not offer any program but instead handles General Education courses and Education with a Mission (EDM) courses. The Department of General Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 317, or through the following persons and emails - Director: Grace Magalzo-Bualat, MPS, LLB (gmbualat@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Charin R. Salindo (charinsalindoogem@gmail.com). The coordinator for EDM 1, EDM 2, and Ethics is Fr. Jerome S. Montesclaros, PhD, SVD (jeromesvd@yahoo.com). The coordinator for TCW, PC, LWR, and RPH is Owen O. de la Victoria, LLB, MAPA (oodelavictoria@usc.edu.ph). The coordinator for STS, UTS, MMW, and ART is Val B. Salares, MS (vbsalares@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Hospitality and Tourism (DHT) offers the following programs: BS Hospitality Management, BS Tourism Management, and Diploma in Culinary Arts. The Department of Hospitality and Tourism can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 555/556, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. Shalymar C. Urbano (scurbano@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Hospitality Management and Diploma in Culinary Arts is Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Tourism Management is Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph).

The College of Law offers the following programs: Juris Doctor (non-thesis), Juris Doctor (with thesis). The College of Law can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 566/567, or through the following persons and emails: Dean: Atty. Jose Glenn C. Capanas (jgccapanas@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Dean: Atty. Daryl Bretch M. Largo, LLM (dbmlargo@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (DMME) offers the following programs: BS Mechanical Engineering, MS Mechanical Engineering. The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 154, or through its chair, Michael E. Loretero, PhD (meloretero@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Industrial Engineering offers the following programs: BS Industrial Engineering, MS Industial Engineering. The Department of Industrial Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 224, or through its chair, Dr. Lorafe Lozano (lflozano@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nursing offers the following programs: BS Nursing, MA Nursing. The Department of Nursing can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 134, or through its chair, Maria Lourdeni A. Ruaya, RN, MAN, JD (mlaruaya@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics (DND) offers the program BS Nutrition and Dietetics. The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 160, or through its chair: Ms. Lianne M. Cormanes, RND, MPA, MSc (lmcormanes@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Pharmacy offers the program BS Pharmacy, Certificate in Clinical Pharmacy, and MS Pharmacy. The Department of Pharmacy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 321, or through its chair, Gerard Lee L. See, RPh, MSc, PHD (pharmsec@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Philosophy offers the following programs: Bachelor Philosophy, MA Philosophy, PhD Philosophy. The Department of Philosophy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 124, or through the following emails – philoreldept@usc.edu.ph, philosec@usc.edu.ph.

The Department of Physics offers the following programs: BS Applied Physics, MS Physics, and PhD Physics. The Department of Physics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 145, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Renante Violanda, PhD (rrviolanda@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Mary Aileen Baculpo, MS (physicssec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Political Science (DPS) offers the following programs: BA Political Science (major in International Relations and Foreign Service, Law and Policy Studies), MA Political Science, MA Public Management and Development. The Department of Political Science can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 578, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Rejene T. Lakibul, MPMD (rtlakibul@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Irish L. Managbanag, MS (poscsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Psychology offers the following programs: BS Psychology, MA Psychology (concentration in Social Psychology, Industrial and Organizational Psychology), MA Clinical Psychology, MA Guidance and Counseling. The Department of Psychology can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 131, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Reuel Joab C. Yap, PhD (rcyap@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Katrina Esco (psycssec@usc.edu.ph).


Topic 64: Motor Vehicle Pass Application

All USC personnel intending to bring their motor vehicles to the university campuses should have a motor vehicle pass or car sticker corresponding to each vehicle they bring. The application for motor vehicle pass stickers is only available during the first month of the semester and cannot be accessed outside of the said period. The motor vehicle pass or car sticker must be renewed every semester.

Before applying for a motor vehicle pass or car sticker, Check whether you are eligible to apply for a Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker or not. The following are eligible to apply for a motor vehicle pass: A student who is currently enrolled; A faculty member with teaching load or deloaded units; a personnel who is included in the roster of active employees; a contractor with an active contract or notice to proceed.; a guest with appropriate Contract or Memorandum of Agreement; a concessionaire with Food Services Agreement; a Miradel resident who is included in the official roster; an agency personnel who is in the list of personnel issued by the agency; a member of the SVD community, here referred to as SVD; an incumbent Board of Director or Cabinet member, here referred to as VIP.

To apply for a motor vehicle pass or car sticker, login to the system using your ISMIS account for students, faculty, and admin. If you have forgotten your ISMIS account password, simply click on Forgot Password and a link will be sent to your registered email. Click on the link sent to your email and reset your password. For those who have no ISMIS account such as guests, you can register by clicking on Register for Motor Vehicle Pass Application besides the login form of ISMIS. Complete the registration procedure to be able to activate your username and password.

Once you are in the ISMIS portal, click "Motor Vehicle Pass" and then "Sticker Application". Check if you have already applied online by clicking on "Application History" under Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker Application. If there is an entry there, then you just have to renew your Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker by clicking on "Renewal". If there is no entry in the Application History, click on "New Application".

The coverage or campuses allowed of the motor vehicle pass or car sticker per category is as follows. For agency personnel, only Talamban Campus and Downtown Campus is allowed. For concessionaires, only Talamban Campus and Downtown Campus is allowed. For contractor, only only Talamban Campus and Downtown Campus is allowed. For faculty, all campuses are allowed. For guests, only Talamban Campus and Downtown Campus is allowed. For Miradel, only Talamban Campus is allowed. For admins and personnel, all campuses are allowed. For students, only Talamban Campus is allowed. For SVD, all campuses are allowed. For VIP, board of directors and cabinet members, all campuses are allowed.

Once the form opens after clicking either "New Application" or "Renewal", completely fill in the form shown. Make sure you have read the rules and regulations and reviewed completeness and accuracy of all the information you provided before submitting the form.

Check for the status of your application anytime at the Application History of the Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker Application Menu or at your registered email address for a notification. Wait for the endorsement and approval of the application before making any payment at the University Teller. Only those with approved Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker application can proceed with the payment transaction. Present your proof of approval such as the email notification, and indicate your motor vehicle plate number when transacting payment at the University Teller. 

The Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker will be queued for printing after payment. An email will be sent to you once your sticker is ready for pick-up at the Office of the Security and Safety.

Present your Official Receipt together with the additional claiming requirement which is study load for the current semester (for student), faculty load or deloading for the current semester (for faculty), USC employee ID or access badge ID (for personnel, agency personnel and Miradel), contract or memorandum of agreement (for guest, contractor, and concessionaire), to the Office of Security and Safety upon claiming your sticker. For students, you can only claim your Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker at the Office of the Security and Safety for Talamban Campus which is located at the basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building.


Topic 65: Motor Vehicle Rules and Guidelines

The Security and Safety personnel or the designated security officer issues the Motor Vehicle Pass sticker to the applicant by sticking it at the lower left had corner (driver's side) of the vehicle's windshield or any appropriate and visible portion of the motorcycles.

Only one (1) Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker is allowed per applicant. Should there be a need for more, the applicant must submit a letter of request stating a valid reason to the VP for Administration. Such request is then subject for review.

No sticker, no entry. Motor vehicles, cars, trucks, and motorcycles without stickers cannot be entered into the campus. The provision and use of a parking space and drop and pick up places in the campus is a privilege and not a right. Therefore, the University of San Carlos reserves the right to refuse entry to any vehicle without a proper Motor Vehicle Pass sticker.

Only vehicles and motorcycles with valid USC Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker are allowed entry inside the campus to park (self-driven) or drop and pick-up bona fide USC students (drop and pick-up).

All motor vehicles or motorcycles are subject for security inspection upon entry and exit. Therefore, the window in the driver's side must be opened. A valid USC school ID of the student must be presented to security personnel upon entry.


The following rules must be strictly observed for motor vehicle pass or car sticker owners inside the campus: Observe courtesy to security personnel; no overspeeding (speed limit is 25 kph); no parking on corners and curve areas of the road (observe 6 meters' distance from the corner); no loud radio or stereo music; no blowing of horns; no parking in non-designated area; no idling of engines and other unnecessary high torque revolution. 

Violation to the motor vehicle pass or car sticker rules and regulations, guidelines, and policies of the University will be dealt with by the following:
First offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) week
Second offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) month
Third offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) semester
Fourth offense - Cancellation of privilege

For drop and pick up applicants, driver's attire is expected to be neat, clean & decent upon entry in the campus; sleeveless, shorts & slippers are not allowed. Parking is not allowed inside the campus. Waiting time is 10 to 15 minutes only.

Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker is non-transferrable and must be placed on the front windshield in the left side of the vehicle. Tampering or transferring of car pass stickers is a serious offense subject to cancellation of privilege. 

Only the Security and Safety personnel or designated security officer is authorized to remove the Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker and issue a citation ticket. Should you wish to reapply for a vehicle pass after serving the suspension period due to a violation, you may do so by requesting for unblocking of your account and reprinting of the sticker at the Office of Security and Safety. This is also subject for approval and payment should only be made once the request is approved. Any vehicle displaying a USC Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker that is forged is subject to citation, immobilization and disciplinary action.

The University of San Carlos assumes no responsibility for any loss or damage to parked vehicles.


Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology / BA Anthropology / BA ANTHRO

Description:
Anthropology is the systematic study of cultures covering all human experiences (biological to social) from the distant past to the present in all places in the world. The Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology (BA ANTHRO) program includes intensive coursework and fieldwork designed to equip students with cross-cultural knowledge and skills in teaching, research and community development work/advocacy for indigenous peoples, and heritage preservation.

The Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology (BA ANTHRO) builds competencies for these jobs: Archaeologists, Heritage Conservationists, Cultural Documenters, Anthropological Researchers, Museum Curators, Tour Guides, Tour Organizers, Journalist, Writers, Advocates for Indigenous People and Heritage Preservation

The core courses for BA Anthropology (BA ANTHRO) are: General Anthropology, Peoples and Cultures of the Philippines.

The major courses for BA Anthropology (BA ANTHRO) are: Cultural Anthropology, Linguistic Anthropology, Physical Anthropology, Archaeology Theory and Methods, Anthropological Theory, Quantitative Research Methods, Qualitative Research Methods, Cebuano Society and Culture, Gender, Society and Culture, Field Methods in Cultural Anthropology, Marriage, Family and Kinship, Heritage Studies, Environment, Society and Culture, Health, Society and Culture, Applied Anthropology, Economic Anthropology, Political Anthropology, Religion, Society and Culture, Social Change and Development.

The elective courses for BA Anthropology (BA ANTHRO) are: Anthropology of Justice and Human Rights, Introduction to Folklore and Expressive Culture, Peasant Societies and Development, Anthropology of Sex and Culture, Peoples of Southeast Asia, Anthropology of Art, Anthropology of Globalization, Visual Anthropology, Anthropology of Magic and Witchcraft, Anthropology of Youth and Aging, Introduction to Museology, Heritage and Sustainable Cultural Tourism, Approaches to Community Development, Urban Society and Culture, Disaster and Recovery.


Bachelor of Arts in Communication major in Media / BA Communication major in Media / BA COMM-MEDIA

Description:
The Bachelor of Arts in Communication Major in Media (BA COM-MEDIA) program prepares students to be competent in journalism, broadcasting, production and media planning. Through intensive coursework, field studies, and media industry exposure, future graduates are equipped with the skills and training to better respond to the dynamic Philippine media landscape and become responsible media practitioners.

The Bachelor of Arts in Communication major in Media (BA COMM-MEDIA) builds competencies for these jobs: News writers, Journalists, radio and TV anchors, Reporters, Media relations officers, Production staff, Directors, Researchers, Scriptwriters, Photojournalists, Multimedia storytellers, Content writers, Editors.

The core courses for BA Communication major in Media (BA COMM-MEDIA) are: Introduction to Communication Media, Introduction to Communication Theories, Communication Planning, Communication Media Laws and Ethics, Communication, Culture, and Society, Communication Management, Communication Research.

The major courses for BA Communication major in Media (BA COMM-MEDIA) are: Journalism Principles and Practices, Broadcasting Principles and Practices, Development Communication, News Writing, Advanced News Writing, Social Media Principles and Practices, Risk, Disaster, and Humanitarian, Digital Publishing, Knowledge Management, Investigative Reporting, Peace Communication, Civic Engagement and Participatory Communication, Multimedia Storytelling, Thesis 1 (Thesis Proposal Writing), Thesis 2 (Thesis Writing and Oral Defense).


Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies / BA English Language Studies / BA ELS

Description:
The Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies (BA ELS) program produces graduates who are competent in research, language education, language use and communication. As they explore the evolving nature of English language system and development, students apply critical and creative thinking through practice with written and spoken discourses such as the creation and presentation of extensive research works and other linguistic studies.

The Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies (BA ELS) builds competencies for these jobs: Language Experts, Publicists, Researchers, Language teachers, Copy editors, Content writers, Translators, Technical writers.

The core courses for BA English Language Studies (BA ELS) are: History of the English Language, Introduction to the English Language System, English Phonology and Morphology, English Syntax, Semantics of English, English Discourse, Theories of Language and Language Acquisition, Introduction to Language, Society, and Culture, Stylistics, Computer-Mediated Communication, Language of Literary Texts, Language of Non-Literary Texts.

The major courses for BA English Language Studies (BA ELS) are: Philippine English, Language and Power, Language and Gender, Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics, Psychology of Language, Multimodal Communication, Introduction to Pragmatics, ELT Approaches and Methods, English Language Testing and Assessment, Translation Studies 1 & 2, Language Research 1 & 2



Bachelor of Arts in Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing / BA Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing / BA LCS

Description:
The Bachelor of Arts in Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing (BA LCS) program helps learners to creatively interpret, represent, and express their ideas and society’s realities through various mediums such as poems, short stories, and novels. Guided by Western and Oriental theoretical and cultural foundations, students are trained to communicate their messages to the community with respect to their culture, beliefs, values and perspectives.

The Bachelor of Arts in Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing (BA LCS) builds competencies for these jobs: Creative Writers, Literary Journalists and Publishers, Content Writers, Content Editors, Literature Teachers, Library/Digital Humanities Officers, Literary/Film Critics, Literary Translators, Stage/Film Directors, Literary/Cultural Events Organizer/Planners, Museum Administrator/Art Curators, Non-Government Organization Officers.

The core courses for BA Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing (BA LCS) are: Introduction to Literature and Literary Studies, Introduction to Literary Theory, Introduction to Literature and the Professions, Literary Research, Introduction to Cultural Theory/Cultural Studies, Introduction to Creative Writing, Introduction to Translation, Introduction to Postcolonial Tradition.

The major courses for BA Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing (BA LCS) are: Philippine Literature: The Nation and the Region, Literatures of Asia 1, Literatures of Asia 2, Literatures of Europe 1, Literatures of Europe 2, Literatures of the Americas, Literature and Creative Writing 1 (Poetry & Creative Non-Fiction), Literature and Creative Writing 2 (Fiction & Drama), Literature and Creative Writing 3 (Literary Portfolio Critiquing & Workshop), Literary Translation, Literature and the Environment, Mythology and Folklore, Thesis 1 (Thesis Proposal Writing), Thesis 2 (Thesis Writing and Oral Defense).


Bachelor of Arts in Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service Track / BA Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service Track / BA PS-IRFS

Description:
The Bachelor of Arts in Political Science – International Relations and Foreign Service (BA PS-IRFS) program intends to contribute to national, regional and international political development based on ethically sound and sustainable approaches. Students will engage in the discourse of international politics that will be strongly grounded on the dialogue of global and local realities. They will also be prepared on the rigors of the foreign service examination so they can take their chance of becoming part of the diplomatic corps of the country or help pursue sustainable development efforts. They will engage in critical inquiries using the tools of debate, argumentation and case analysis, among others. The program will develop lifelong learners with highly transferable skills especially in pursuing diplomacy and development work in the future.

The Bachelor of Arts in Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service (BA PS-IRFS) builds competencies for these jobs: Local Government Service (Protocol officers, Policy researchers), National Government Service (Monitoring and Evaluation Officers, Policy researchers), Foreign Service (Staff and officers in diplomatic and consular offices, Protocol officers) Academe (Political analysts, Policy researchers, Parliamentarians, Governance experts/consultants, Legal professionals), Civil Society (Development workers for international and local organizations, Advocacy officers, Media practitioners, Lobbyists).

The core courses for BA Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service Track (BA PS-IRFS) are: Introduction to Political Science, Fundamentals of Political Theory, Political Behavior, Philippine Politics and Governance, Readings in Philippine Public Administration, Politics and Governance in South East Asia, Comparative Politics, Quantitative Methods, Qualitative Methods, International Relations and Politics, Public Policy, Conflict Dynamics and Management

The major courses for BA Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service Track (BA PS-IRFS) are: Public International Law, Philippine Foreign Policy and Analysis, Labor and Social Legislation, Political Analysis, International Political Economy, Peace and Security Studies, Sustainable Development, International Organizations and Institutions, Diplomatic Protocol and Foreign Service, Review and FSOE Simulation, Diplomatic Language 1 to 4, Research Proposal, Data Gathering and Analysis, Research Writing and Publication, Practicum, Policy Advocacy

The elective courses for BA Political Science - International Relations and Foreign Service Track (BA PS-IRFS) are: Cebuano Politics, Current Events, Democracy and Development, Gender and Development, Parliamentary Rules and Procedure, Restorative Justice and Conflict Transformation, Civil Relations for IRFS, Criminal Justice for IRFS, General Taxation for IRFS, Introduction to Law for IRFS, Legal Philosophy and Ethical Practice for IRFS, Philippine Constitutional Rights for IRFS, Powers and Structures of Government for IRFS, Public International Law for IRFS, Development: Concepts and Perspectives for IRFS, Development: Methods and Tools for IRFS, Ethics in Governance for IRFS, Poverty: Concepts and Interventions for IRFS, Project Development, Monitoring, and Evaluation for IRFS, Public Fiscal Management for IRFS, Regional and Local Governance in the Philippines for IRFS, The Philippine Bureaucracy and Civil Service for IRFS.


Bachelor of Arts in Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track / BA Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track / BA PS-LPS

Description:
The Bachelor of Arts in Political Science – Law and Policy Studies (BA PS-LPS) Program intends to lead the policy discourse at the local, national and international spheres attuned to essential theoretical and methodological frames. In particular, learners will analyze current socio-economic and politico-administrative structures towards the review and formulation of sustainable policy responses. Corollary to this is the development of the students’ discerning capacity towards pursuing what is right and ethical. These will be achieved by engaging the learners in critical inquiries using the tools of debate, argumentation and case analysis, among others. The program will develop lifelong learners with highly transferable skills especially in pursuing further studies in law and public policy.

The Bachelor of Arts in Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track (BA PS-LPS) builds competencies for these jobs: Local Government Service (Planning and social service officers, Policy researchers, LGU administrators, Local legislative staff and assistants), National Government Service (Program implementation officers, Monitoring and Evaluation Officers, Policy researchers), Academe (Political analysts, Policy researchers, Parliamentarians, Governance experts/consultants, Legal professionals), Civil Society (Legal aides, Media practitioners, Lobbyists).

The core courses for BA Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track (BA PS-LPS) are: Introduction to Political Science, Fundamentals of Political Theory, Political Behavior, Philippine Politics and Governance, Readings in Philippine Public Administration, Politics and Governance in South East Asia, Comparative Politics, Quantitative Methods, Qualitative Methods, International Relations and Politics, Public Policy, Conflict Dynamics and Management

The major courses for BA Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track (BA PS-LPS) are: Restorative Justice and Conflict Transformation, Introduction to Law, Legal Philosophy and Ethical Practice, Powers and Structures of Government, Philippine Constitutional Rights, Civil Relations, Criminal Justice, Public International Law, General Taxation, Labor and Social Legislation, Political Analysis, Sustainable Development, Research Proposal, Data Gathering and Analysis, Research Writing and Publication, Practicum, Policy Advocacy.

The elective courses for BA Political Science – Law and Policy Studies Track (BA PS-LPS) are: Cebuano Politics, Current Events, Democracy and Development, Gender and Development, Parliamentary Rules and Procedure, Restorative Justice and Conflict Transformation, Diplomatic Protocol and Foreign Service for LPS, International Organizations and Institutions for LPS, International Political Economy for LPS, Peace and Security Studies for LPS, Philippine Foreign Service and Analysis for LPS, Development: Concepts and Perspectives for LPS, Development: Methods and Tools for LPS, Ethics in Governance for LPS, Poverty: Concepts and Interventions for LPS, Project Development, Monitoring, and Evaluation for LPS, Public Fiscal Management for LPS, Regional and Local Governance in the Philippines for LPS, The Philippine Bureaucracy and Civil Service for LPS.


Bachelor of Fine Arts Major in Advertising Arts / BA Fine Arts major in Advertising Arts / B FA-ADV

Description:
The Bachelor of Fine Arts Major in Advertising Arts (B FA-ADV) is designed to prepare learners in the practice of advertising and promotion. This specialization is developed to provide knowledge in the application of advertising principles and to develop the practical skills on the process, techniques, and production of art and design which are essential to effectively convey ideas and information to a target audience. Upon graduation, learners will have developed the analytical, observational, problem-solving, communication and collaborative skills to create a competitive portfolio that the advertising industry demands.

The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Major in Advertising Arts (B FA-ADV) builds competencies for these jobs: Advertising Artists, Animators, Art Directors, Cartographers, Cartoonists, Creative Directors, Design Managers, Educators, Game Environment Designers, Graphic Designers, Illustrators, Installation Artists, Layout Artists, Model Makers, Package Designers, Photographers, Printmakers, Product Designers, Special Effects Artists, Video Editors, Visual Developers, Visual Merchandisers, Web Designers

The core courses for BA Fine Arts major in Advertising Arts (B FA-ADV) are: Visual Perception 1 & 2, Techniques 1 & 2, Materials 1 & 2, Philippine Art, Asian Art, Figure Drawing 1 & 2, Western Art

The major courses for BA Fine Arts major in Advertising Arts (B FA-ADV) are: Digital Design 1: Principles of Graphic Design, Visual Communication Design 1: Introduction to Advertising Illustration, Basic Photography, Digital Design 2: Advanced Graphics with Typography and Layout, Visual Communication Design 2: Advertising Ethics and Principles, Advanced Photography, Digital Design 3: Art Direction 1, Visual Communication Design 3: Advertising Theory and Practice, Production Techniques 1 & 2, Digital Media Arts 1, 2, 3 and 4, Visual Verbal Communication, Design Theory, Creative Research, Digital Design 4: Art Direction 2, Visual communication Design 4: Content Development for Advertising Problems in Communication, Production Design: Set Design, Food styling and Props Making, Visual Identity 1 & 2, Portfolio

The elective courses for BA Fine Arts major in Advertising Arts (B FA-ADV) are: Copywriting, Media Planning, Cartooning, Basic Animation, Expository Writing, Professional Ethics and Law


Bachelor of Fine Arts Major in Cinema / BA Fine Arts major in Cinema / B FA-CNM

Description:
The Bachelor of Fine Arts Major in Cinema (B FA-CNM) is designed for the learners to explore every aspect of film and filmmaking practice by creating compelling visual stories. A contemporary learning environment awaits the next generation of film production crew where a critical and thorough appreciation of cinema history, theory, artistry, and value is integrated and nurtured. Whether they aspire to direct, produce, write screenplays, or create motion picture sound or photography, students are given opportunities to use their knowledge and skills to be excellent and fluent film practitioners in the flourishing Philippine and global film industries.

The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Major in Cinema (B FA-CNM) builds competencies for these jobs: Animators, Art Directors, Cartoonists, Cinematographers, Costume Designers, Educators, Film Composers, Film Directors, Film Producers, Makeup Artists, Photographers, Production Designers, Prop Designers, Set Designers, Special Effects Artists, Screenwriters, Video Editors, Sound Editors, Visual Developers

The core courses for BA Fine Arts major in Cinema (B FA-CNM) are: Visual Perception 1 & 2, Techniques 1 & 2, Materials 1 & 2, Philippine Art, Asian Art, Figure Drawing 1 & 2, Western Art

The major courses for BA Fine Arts major in Cinema (B FA-CNM) are: Sinekultura 1: Origins of Cinema, Techniques 3: Photography, Production Method 1: Screenwriting 1, Moving Images 1 & 2, Sinekultura 2: Waves of World Cinema, Techniques 4: Documentary, Production Method 2: Screenwriting 2, Sinekultura 3: Seminar on Philippine Cinema, Cinema Workshop 1: Cinematography and Audiography 1, Production Method 3: Production Management, Digital Media Post-Production 1: Principles of Cinematic Montage 1, Performance Studies: The Actors Studio, Cinema Film Theory, Creative Research, Cinema Workshop 2: Cinematography and Audiography 2, Production Method 4: Seminar on Producers, Entrepreneurship / producers Workshop, Digital Media Post Production 2: Principles of Cinematic Montage 2, Performance Studies 2: The Directors Workshop, Cinema Curatorship and experiences, Cinema Workshop 3: Production Crew 1 & 2, Special Topics in CNM 1: Film Marketing and Film Distribution, Digital Media Post Production 3: cinematic Sound Design and Music, Special Topics in CNM 2: Industry Trends, Insights and Analysis, Digital Media Post Production 4: Cinema Color and Visual Effects

The elective courses for BA Fine Arts major in Cinema (B FA-CNM) are: Cinema Studies 1 & 2, Cartooning, Basic Animation, Expository Writing, Professional Ethics & Law


Bachelor of Philosophy / AB Philosophy / B Ph

Description:
The Bachelor of Philosophy (B Ph) program provides students an opportunity to delve deeper into questions that matter such as the nature of the world we live in, how to live the good life in such a world, what constitutes a just state, how we know and acquire true knowledge, whether God exists or not, and the meaning of art, language, education, science and technology. The discipline of philosophy enables students to acquire skills in analysis, argument and critical thinking that are relevant to a wide variety of disciplines and professions. It also deepens and broadens their understanding of reality that facilitates a better appraisal of issues culminating in informed decisions and responsible actions.

The Bachelor of philosophy (B Ph) builds competencies for these jobs: Lawyers, Educators, Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) Workers, Human Resource Officers, Civil Service Professionals, Religious Ministers, Researchers, Policy Advisors, Labor Relations Officers, Management Consultants, Counselors, Bank Officers, Business Professionals, Social Workers, Journalists/Writers

The core courses for AB Philosophy (B Ph) are: Logic, Introduction to Philosophy, History of Western Philosophy 1 & 2, History of Chinese Philosophy, History of Indian Philosophy, Phenomenology, Cosmology/Philosophy of Science, Advanced Philosophy of Man/ Human Person/ Rational Psychology/ Philosophical, Anthropology, Epistemology/Theory of Knowledge, Metaphysics, Theodicy, Political Philosophy/Social Philosophy, Philosophy of Language, Aesthetics/Theories of Art, Modern Asian Thoughts, Comparative Philosophy (East-West), Introduction to Philosophical Research and Proposal Writing, Thesis Writing in Philosophy, Thesis Writing in Philosophy and Oral Defense.

The seminar courses for AB Philosophy (B Ph) are: Seminar on Filipino Philosophy, Special Questions in Philosophy, Special Questions in Ethics, Seminar on Contemporary Philosophy, Seminar on Plato or Seminar on Aristotle.

The elective courses for AB Philosophy (B Ph) are: Global Ethics, Philosophy of Technology, Existentialism, Environmental Philosophy, Bioethics, Postmodern Philosophy, Hermeneutics, Philosophy of Law, Philosophy of Religion, Philosophy of Education, Philosophy of Culture, Social Philosophy, Philosophy of Atheism, Symbolic Logic, Philosophy of Marxism


Bachelor of Science in Accountancy / BS Accountancy / BS A

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BS A) is a program which equips graduates to take assessments leading to the Certified Public Accountant designation. Its primary goal is to produce competent and ethical professional accountants capable of making a positive contribution to the profession and the society. It fosters wealth creation through collaboration with clients to help them solve their complex industry issues and capitalize on opportunities to grow, optimize and protect their businesses in a world of complexity, disruption and opportunity; wealth management through providing advice on strategies to raise, invest, optimize and preserve capital to achieve the client’s best capital performance, deliver value to stakeholders and meet their strategic corporate objectives; and wealth distribution through the creation of more employment opportunities thereby stimulating economic growth when clients venture into new business models, innovative trends and offerings as a result of the professional accountant’s advice, mentoring and providing accounting services for management to fairly deploy the resources that are due to the community.

The Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BS A) builds competencies for these jobs: External Service Provider (External Auditors, Tax Consultants, Risk Management Consultants, Compilers), Commerce and Industry (Cost Analysts, Investment Analysts, Accounting Information staff, Tax accounting staff, Financial Analysts, Budget Analysts, Credit Analysts, Cost Accountants), Government (State Accounting Examiners, NBI Agents, Treasury Agents, State Accountants, LGU Accountants, Revenue Officers, Audit Examiners, Budget Officers, Financial Services Specialists), Education (Junior Accounting Instructors), Upper Level Management (Chief Financial Officers, Comptrollers)

The core courses for BS Accountancy (BS A) are: Conceptual Frameworks and Accounting Standards, Law on Obligations and Contracts, Management Science, Introduction to Partnership and Corporation, Intermediate Accounting 1, 2, and 3, Business Laws and Regulations, Cost Accounting and Control, Governance, Business Ethics, Risk Management, and Internal Control, Management Accounting, Regulatory Framework and Legal Issues in Business, Accounting Information Systems, Income Taxation, Economic Development, Information Technology (IT) Application Tools in Business, Financial Accounting and Reporting, Statistical Analysis with Software Application, Business Tax, Financial Markets and Basic Finance, International Business and Trade, Accounting Research Proposal, Managerial Economics, Financial Management, Strategic Cost Management, Final Accounting Thesis Writing, Accounting Information System Internship.

The professional courses for BS Accountancy (BS A) are: Auditing and Assurance Principles, Auditing and Assurance: Concepts and Application, Auditing in a CIS Environment, Accounting for Business Combinations, Accounting for Government and Non-profit Organizations, Accounting Practice 1 (Financial Accounting and Reporting Theory and Practice), Accounting Practice 2 (Advanced Financial Accounting and Reporting Theory and Practice).

The elective professional courses for BS Accountancy (BS A) are: Management Advisory Services, Auditing, Taxation, Regulatory Framework for Business Transactions, Updates in Financial Reporting Standards, Operations Auditing.


Bachelor of Science in Applied Physics / BS Applied Physics / BS APP PHYS

Description:
The undergraduate degree program in Applied Physics (BS APP PHYS) is a balance between a holistic general education program and a substantial Physics curriculum. It provides the students with a comprehensive and rigorous training in physics as a foundation for careers in pure and applied physics or interdisciplinary sciences. The students will be engaged in actual experimental designs in photonics and biophysics, and in data analysis via computational simulations. On their fourth year, the students will embark on an on-the-job training either in other Physics Institutes for theoretical works, in IT-related companies, or in research laboratories. All of these activities provide the needed analytical, numerical, and experimental skills of Physics graduates.

The Bachelor of Science in Applied Physics (BS APP PHYS) builds competencies for these jobs: Data Scientists, Material Scientists/Engineers in Semiconductor Companies, Programmers, Software developers, Biophysicists, Geophysicists, Senior High School Teachers, Research Assistants, Research Scientists in Government Agencies (PAGASA, PHILVOCS), Financial Analysts/Advisors

The core courses for BS Applied Physics (BS APP PHYS) are: Mathematics, Probability and Statistics, Analysis I (Differential Calculus), Analysis II (Integral Calculus), Mathematical Methods in Physics I & II & III, General and Inorganic Chemistry, Introduction to Zoology.

The major courses for BS Applied Physics (BS APP PHYS) are: University Physics I & II & III, Electronics, Classical Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism I & II, Computational Physics I & II, Modern Physics, Quantum Mechanics, Statistical and Thermal Physics, Advanced Laboratory.

The elective professional courses for BS Applied Physics (BS APP PHYS) are: Data Analytics, Optics/ Laser Physics, Neural Networks, Materials Science, Computer Vision/Image Processing, Signals, Quantum Mechanics.


Bachelor of Science in Architecture / BS Architecture / BS ARCH

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Architecture (BS ARCH) develops aspiring architects with the comprehensive knowledge of architectural design from the aesthetic expression of spaces to the technical construction of technologies and materials. Through this program, the students will understand the basic philosophy and fundamental principles of the multi-dimensional aspects of architecture and the direct relationship between humans and the environment. They will also learn the appropriate professional attitude in the practice of architecture in accordance with the scope of the global and local practice.

The Bachelor of Science in Architecture (BS ARCH) builds competencies for these jobs: Architect (As a prime professional in the construction industry who is involved in all stages of a project from Concept and Physical Plan Development, Production of Presentation Drawings, Production of Construction Documents, to Project Monitoring during Implementation), Consultant (As an allied professional who specializes in one or more of the following fields in Architectural Design for Real Estate Development, Architectural Interiors, Architectural Visualization and Project Documentation, Community Architecture, Building Maintenance and Facility Management, Construction Project Management and Quantity Survey, Design-Build Service, Architectural Conservation)

The core courses for BS Architecture (BS ARCH) are: Visual Communication - Drafting, Drawing and Rendering, Architectural Design and Site Planning, History and Theory of Architecture, Structural Design, Building Materials and Construction, Utilities.

The professional courses for BS Architecture (BS ARCH) are: Architectural Design, History of Architecture, Theory of Architecture, Building Technology, Building Utilities, Planning, Housing, Research Methods for Architecture, Advanced Statistics, Tropical Design, Architectural Interiors, Professional Practice, Business Management and Application for Architecture, Computer Aided Design and Drafting (Building Information Modeling).

The elective courses for BS Architecture (BS ARCH) are: Architectural Conservation Principles and Policies with Liturgical Arts, Architectural Conservation Methods and Materials, Architectural Conservation Coursework, History and Theory of Urban Design, Design of Public Spaces, Audio Design and Acoustics, Lighting Design, Advanced Form Finding, Modeling and Prototyping, Digital Presentation and Animation, Architectural Journalism, Architectural Journalism - Fieldwork and Architectural Photography.


Bachelor of Science in Biology / BS Biology / BS BIO

Description:
Biology, as an academic discipline, has been broadened and diversified with the development of advanced laboratory equipment and sophisticated techniques in collaboration with chemists, physicists and engineers. This has led to a dynamic development of research in all levels of biological complexity from molecules to ecosystems, where their properties and interactions are analyzed. The Bachelor of Science in Biology (BS BIO) program is structured as a generalized framework of study with the end of view of grounding students in the fundamental concepts, principles, and theories of the biological, natural and physical sciences, and the conduct of research. This includes the acquisition of appropriate skills, and training in the efficient processing and presentation of information in both written and oral forms.

The Bachelor of Science in Biology (BS BIO) builds competencies for these jobs: Biologists, Resource Managers, Microbiologists, Food Safety Officers, Project Development Officers, Laboratory Managers, Science Research Specialists

The core courses for BS Biology (BS BIO) are: General Botany, General Zoology, Systematics, General Ecology, Microbiology, Cell and Molecular Biology, General Physiology, Genetics, Evolutionary Biology, Developmental Biology, Inorganic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Biostatistics, Analytical Chemistry, Biochemistry, Biomolecules, Biophysics I & II

The specialization courses for BS Biology (BS BIO) are: Microbial Ecology, Medical Histology, Microbial Physiology, Medical Parasitology, Microbial Genetics, Food microbiology, Virology, Epidemiology

The elective courses for BS Biology (BS BIO) are: Histological Technique, Economic Botany.


Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Financial Management / BS Business Administration major in Financial Management / BS BA-FM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BS BA-FM) prepares graduates for various careers in financial management as well as in related fields including but not limited to corporate finance, investment management, banking, credit, trust operations, insurance, foreign currency markets, money markets, capital markets and other financial securities markets. The curriculum provides the graduate with knowledge on financial institutions and technical skills based on established financial theories, methodologies, and various analytical tools. It also promotes an outlook that is based primarily on ethics, market integrity, regulations, good governance, and competitive global perspective necessary for effective financial decision making.

The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BS BA-FM) builds competencies for these jobs: Corporate Financial Controller/Manager, Managing Directors (MDs) on Corporate Finance, International Finance Manager, Financial Manager in a Bank and Insurance Company, Treasurer and Finance Officer, Credit and Collection/Cash Manager, Risk and Insurance Manager/Analysts, Financial Analysts/Cost/Budget/ Investment Analysts, Financial Service Specialists/Trader, Entrepreneur.

The core courses for BS Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BS BA-FM) are: Business Law (Obligations and Contract), Basic Microeconomics, Human Resource Management, Good Governance & Social Responsibility, Income Taxation, Elements of Business Research, Business Analytics, International Business & Trade, Social Entrepreneurship 1, Social Entrepreneurship 2 – Immersion, Operations Management and Total Quality Management (TQM), Project Management, Strategic Management.

The major courses for BS Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BS BA-FM) are: Financial Management, Financial Analysis & Reporting, Banking and Financial Institutions, Monetary Policy and Central Banking, Investment and Portfolio Analysis, Credit & Collection, Capital Market, Special Topics in Financial Management, Thesis Proposal (Finance Thesis 1), Thesis Writing and Publication (Finance Thesis 2).

The elective courses for BS Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BS BA-FM) are: Public Finance, Cooperative Management, Entrepreneurial Management Finance, Treasury Management, Risk management, Security Analysis, Behavioral Finance, Franchising, Financial Controllership, Mutual Fund, Venture Capital, Global Finance, Personal Finance.



Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Human Resource Management / BS Business Administration major in Human Resource Management / BS BA-HRM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-HRM) is designed to prepare graduates for a career in any organizational department handling diverse human capital requirements including recruitment, staffing, training and career development, managing wages and salaries, providing benefits and incentives, evaluating performance, resolving disputes, and communicating with all employees at all levels.

The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-HRM) builds competencies for these jobs: Recruitment Trainees, Assistant Training and Development Officers, Human Resource staff, Employment Engagement Coordinators, Recruitment Officers, Training and Development Managers, Compensation and Benefits Planning Officers, Human Resource Analysts, Careers Information Officers, Career Advisers In Higher Education, Recruitment Managers, Human Resource Managers, Senior Sourcing Specialists, HR System Policy & Planning Administrators, Management Consultants, Academicians.

The core courses for BS Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-HRM) are: Operations Management and Total Quality Management (TQM), Strategic Management, Basic Microeconomics, Business Law (Obligations and Contracts), Taxation (Income Taxation), Good Governance and Social Responsibility, Human Resource Management, International Business and Trade, Elements of Business Research, Social Entrepreneurship 1 and 2

The major courses for BS Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-HRM) are: Administrative and Office Management, Labor Law and Legislation, Recruitment and Selection, Learning and Development, Compensation and Administration, Labor Relations and Negotiations, Special Topics in Human Resource Management, Organizational Development, Performance Management, Strategic Human Resource Management, Thesis Proposal (Human Resource Thesis 1), Thesis Writing and Publication (Human Resource Thesis 2). 

The elective courses for BS Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-HRM) are: Marketing Management, Project Management, Financial Management, Effective Leadership Development, Entrepreneurial Management, Business Analytics.


Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Marketing Management / BS Business Administration major in Marketing Management / BS BA-MM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BS BA-MM) as an outcomes-based program generally aims to develop relevant industry skills in various fields such as digital marketing, international marketing, advertising, professional salesmanship, market research, strategic marketing, distribution, retail and wholesaling, market development, and the like, through actual industry engagements. Specifically, this program seeks to provide avenues to build innovative marketing strategies appropriate to the local, regional (ASEAN), and global levels. The program also endeavors to generate marketers who are socially responsible, culturally sensitive and ethical.

The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BS BA-MM) builds competencies for these jobs: Brand Specialists, Digital Marketers, Entrepreneurs, Market Developers, Market Researchers, Market Analysts, Sales Professionals, Advertising Specialists, Brand Specialists, Events Planners and Organizers, Customer Relations Specialists, Management Trainees

The core courses for BS Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BS BA-MM) are: Microeconomics, Human Resource Management, Business Law and Obligation of Contracts, Good Governance and Social Responsibility, Income taxation, International Business and Trade, Financial management with Analysis in Decision making, Elements in Business Research, Thesis Proposal Writing, Operations Management and Total Quality Management (TQM), Social Entrepreneurship 1 and 2, Strategic Management.

The major courses for BS Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BS BA-MM) are: Consumer Behavior, Marketing Management, Pricing Strategies in Marketing, Product Marketing Management, Service Marketing, Marketing Channels and Distribution, Advertising/Integrated Marketing Communication, Digital Marketing and E-Commerce, Professional Salesmanship, Retail Management, Thesis Proposal (Marketing Thesis 1), Thesis Writing & Publication (Marketing Thesis 2).

The elective courses for BS Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management (BS BA-MM) are: Strategic Marketing, Special topics in Digital Marketing, New Market Development, Marketing Analytics, Professional Salesmanship 2, International/Global Marketing, Entrepreneurial Marketing, Feasibility Study, Franchising, Creative Marketing Designs.


Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Operations Management / BS Business Administration major in Operations Management / BS BA-OM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Operations Management (BS BA-OM) focuses on developing students’ management skills and competencies in providing operational excellence to organizations. Integral to all forms of business operations, it designs, operates, controls and improves systems where work on a product or service is transformative and efficient, thereby creating value for both internal and external customers. The program also aims to provide operational decision-making tools which apply quantitative techniques such as product or service design, process management, work systems design and layout configurations, management of technology and innovation, capacity planning, plant location, logistics and supply chain management, total quality management, operations scheduling, and performance management.

The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Operations Management (BS BA-OM) builds competencies for these jobs: Operations/ Manufacturing/Production Managers, Supervisors, Analysts, Quality Control/Assurance Managers, Analysts, Quality Improvement Managers, Analysts, Supply Chain/Logistics Managers, Planners, Analysts, Inventory Managers, Analysts, Purchasing Managers, Analysts, Corporate Systems Analysts, Operations Management Consultants, Quality Consultants

The core courses for BS Business Administration Major in Operations Management (BS BA-OM) are: Microeconomics, Human Resource Management, Business Law and Obligation of Contracts, Good Governance and Social Responsibility, Income taxation, International Business and Trade, Elements in Business Research, Business Analytics, Operations Management and Total Quality Management (TQM), Social Entrepreneurship 1and 2, Strategic Management.

The major courses for BS Business Administration Major in Operations Management (BS BA-OM) are: Quantitative Methods of Management, Operations Management 1 and 2, Product and Service Design, Operations Processes, Logistics Management, Project Management, Facilities Management, Inventory Management and Control, Supply Chain Management, Productivity and Quality Tools and Techniques, Special Topic in Operations Management, Thesis Proposal Writing (OM Thesis 1), Thesis Writing and Publication (OM Thesis 2).

The elective courses for BS Business Administration Major in Operations Management (BS BA-OM) are: Operations Research, Configuration Management, Design Management, Balance Scorecards, Enterprise Resource Planning, Environmental Management, Risk Management, Entrepreneurial Management, Marketing Management, Financial Management, Financial Analysis for Decision Making.


Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering / BS Chemical Engineeeing / BS ChE

Description:
Chemical engineers play significant roles in the conceptualization of a new or improved product and the process to manufacture it as well as in the development, design, operation, and improvement of those processes. The Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering (BS ChE) program aims to build competencies needed in collaborative investigation and solution of complex process problems and in making ethical, professional decisions that minimize cost and impact to health, safety and environment. The program begins with students acquiring foundational knowledge on natural sciences and mathematics, holistic understanding, civic competencies, and skills to use basic engineering tools. Students then undergo learning experiences that enable them for chemical engineering analysis and design in collaborative teams. In the final year, students are required to demonstrate abilities for analysis, synthesis, design, research, communication and interpersonal skills through team-based capstone projects on chemical process and product design, research-based thesis, and industry internship.

The Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering (BS ChE) builds competencies for these jobs: Process engineers, Product engineers, Production manager/supervisors, Manufacturing operations engineer, Plant managers, Pollution control officer, Safety engineers, Quality assurance engineer, Process design engineers, Product development engineers, Patent engineers, Research and development engineer, Engineering consultants, Technical sales engineer, Environmental management specialists, Technical advisers, Technopreneurs

The core courses for BS Chemical Engineering (BS ChE) are: Chemistry for Engineers, Physics for Engineers, Analytical Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Physical Chemistry for Engineers 1 and 2, Calculus 1 and 2, Differential Equations with ChE Applications, Engineering Data Analysis, Engineering Mechanics, Engineering Economics, Engineering Management, Computer Fundamentals and Programming, Computer-Aided Drafting, Technopreneurship, Environmental Science and Engineering Fundamentals, Materials Science and Engineering Fundamentals, Electrical and Electronics Engineering Fundamentals

The professional courses for BS Chemical Engineering (BS ChE) are: Material and Energy Balance Calculations, Fluid Transport Principles and Applications, Thermodynamic Analysis of Processes, Thermodynamic Analysis and Modeling of Mixtures, Chemical Process Industries, Mathematical Models and Solution Techniques in Chemical Engineering, Analysis and Design of Heat and Mass Transfer Equipment, Analysis and Design of Chemical Reactors, Analysis and Design of Separation Process Equipment, Analysis and Design of Particle Handling and Treatment Operations, Analysis and Synthesis of Bioprocesses, Analysis and Design of Process Control Systems, Laboratory Simulation of Industrial Product Manufacture, Chemical Engineering Laboratory Investigations 1, Chemical Engineering Laboratory Investigations 2, Chemical Product Development and Process Design 1, Chemical Product Development and Process Design 2, Chemical Engineering Research 1, Chemical Engineering Research 2, Management and Control of Industrial Wastes, Plant Inspections and Seminars, Legal and Ethical Considerations in Chemical Engineering Practice, Chemical Engineering Industry Internship.

The elective courses for BS Chemical Engineering (BS ChE) are: Fuels & Energy Production, Commodity, Bulk and Specialty Chemical Production, Minerals and Materials Processing, Pharmaceuticals, Food and Water Production, Environmental and Engineering Management, Technopreneurial Management.


Bachelor of Science in Chemistry / BS Chemistry / BS CHEM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (BS CHEM), the flagship program of the department, prepares the students for work in the industry, academe, government research, or analytical laboratories. Courses cover all fields of chemical science, including inorganic, organic, analytical, physical, and biochemistry with specialized courses in industrial analysis relevant to the needs of the strong manufacturing sector in Metro Cebu. Students are required to complete a 240-hour on-the-job training in industrial laboratories. Research is a major component in the program with students individually engaging in a one-year project prior to graduation. The Professional Regulation Commission administers the Chemist Licensure Examination annually and successful candidates earn the title Registered Chemist.

The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (BS CHEM) builds competencies for these jobs: Quality Assurance Chemist, Laboratory Supervisor/Head, Researcher, Teacher/Professor, R&D Chemist, Government Laboratories – Head/Supervisor/Manager (DOST-RSTC, DOST-ITDI, DENR, DA, DOE, PNP Crime Lab), Scientist, Entrepreneur, Medical Doctor.

The core courses for BS Chemistry (BS CHEM) are: Principles in Chemistry, Organic Chemistry I & II & III, Analytical Chemistry I & II & III, Inorganic Chemistry I & II, Physical Chemistry I & II & III, Biochemistry I & II, Natural Products Chemistry, Technical Methods of Analysis, Thesis I & II & III, General Microbiology.

The elective courses for BS Chemistry (BS CHEM) are: Industrial Chemistry, Food Chemistry, Environment Health and Safety, Polymer Chemistry.


Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering / BS Civil Engineering / BS CH

Description:
In addition to conscious motivation, the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BS CE) program requires good knowledge of basic calculus and sciences— both natural and physical—so that students, along with the outcomes-based method of teaching and learning, can wade through the streams of higher mathematics and core courses that serve as foundation in gaining the ability to: calculate forces that act upon horizontal and vertical structures; analyze the effects of forces and response of structures; determine the properties and behavior of construction materials; estimate the quantity and cost of materials for construction; determine water velocity and flow rates either in pipes or open channels; and estimate flow velocity, flow rates and volumes in rivers and natural waterways. The program, through the professional and elective courses, trains the students to: design horizontal and vertical structures; manage construction projects and design water supply systems, flood protection, and control structures; perform land development planning and consultancy, and work as part of a team.

The Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BS CE) builds competencies for these jobs: Project managers / project engineers, Construction managers / construction engineers, Quantity surveyors, Water resources engineers, Geotechnical engineers, Structural designers

The core courses for BS Civil Engineering (BS CE) are: Civil Engineering Orientation, Engineering Calculus, Engineering Data Analysis, Engineering Economics, Engineering Management, Chemistry for Engineers, Physics for Engineers, Computer Programming, Engineering Drawing and Plans, Computer-Aided Drafting, Fundamentals of Surveying, Statics of Rigid Bodies, Dynamics of Rigid Bodies, Mechanics of Deformable Bodies, Engineering Utilities

The professional courses for BS Civil Engineering (BS CE) are: Geology for Civil Engineers, Differential Equations with CE Applications, Numerical Solutions to CE Problems, Building Systems Design, Construction Materials and Testing, Structural Theory, Geotechnical Engineering, Hydraulics, Hydrology, Quantity Surveying, Principles of Steel Design, Principles of Reinforced / Prestressed Concrete, Water Supply Systems, Geographic Information System: Applications for Civil Engineering, Highway and Railroad Engineering, Construction Methods and Project Management, Principles of Transportation Engineering

For BS Civil Engineering (BS CE), there are three specializations available: Structural Engineering Specialization, Water Resources and Environmental Engineering Specialization, and Construction Engineering and Management Specialization. For Structural Engineering Specialization, the courses to take are: Principles of Prestressed Concrete Design, Principles of Foundation and Retaining Wall Design, Matrix Structural Analysis, Reinforced Concrete Design, Earthquake Engineering, Structural Dynamics, Design of Steel Structures. For Water Resources and Environmental Engineering Specialization, the courses to take are: Water Resources Engineering, Irrigation Engineering, Water Supply Planning and Design, River Engineering, Flood Control and Drainage Design. For Construction Engineering and Management Specialization, the courses to take are: Construction Occupational Safety and Health, Green Engineering, Advanced Construction Methods and Equipment, Construction Cost Engineering, Database Management in Construction, Project Construction Management.


Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering / BS Computer Engineering / BS CpE

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BS CpE) is a program that embodies the science and technology of design, development, implementation, maintenance and integration of software and hardware components in modern computing systems and computer-controlled equipment. The program intends to initiate the transformative development of the local and national communities through the application, design and building of computer systems technology as sustainable solutions to regional and global problems. Students will be provided with both theoretical and practical background in computer hardware, networking and software, along with the engineering analysis, design and implementation skills necessary to work in the different sub-fields.

The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BS CpE) builds competencies for these jobs: Software Developers, Hardware Developers, Firmware Engineers, Embedded Systems Developers, Test Engineers, Computer Systems Analysts, Web Developers, Database Administrators, Information Security Analysts, Network and Computer System Administrators.

The core courses for BS Computer Engineering (BS CpE) are: Chemistry for Engineers, Chemistry for Engineers Laboratory, Differential Calculus, Integral Calculus, Engineering Data Analysis, Physics for Engineers, Physics for Engineers Laboratory, Electrical Circuits, Differential Equations with CpE Applications, Engineering Economics, Technopreneurship, Electronic Circuits, Computer-Aided Drafting for CpE.

The professional courses for BS Computer Engineering (BS CpE) are: Computer Engineering as a Discipline, Programming Logic and Design, Discrete Mathematics, Data Structures and Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming, Software Design, Advance Mathematics for CpE, Logic Circuits and Design, Data and Digital Communications, Computer Engineering Drafting and Design, Introduction to HDL, Feedback and Control Systems, Fundamentals of Mixed Signals and Sensors Microprocessors, Computer Networks and Security, Operating Systems, Methods of Research, Numerical Methods, Embedded Systems, Computer Architecture and Organization, Digital Signal Processing, CpE Laws and Professional Practice, Emerging Technologies in CpE, Basic Occupational Health and Safety, CpE Research, CpE Design 1 & 2.

The elective courses for BS Computer Engineering (BS CpE) are: Server Administration, Network Technologies, Network Systems Security, Software Development Strategies, Web Development, Mobile Applications Development, Embedded Systems, Microelectronics, Information Engineering, Technology Management, Technical Product and Services Marketing, Technopreneurial Operations Management.


Bachelor of Science in Computer Science / BS Computer Science / BS CS

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BS CS) program is the study of computing concepts and theories, algorithmic foundations and new developments in computing, including the standards and practices in Software Engineering. The program prepares students to design and create algorithmically complex software and develop new effective algorithms for solving computing problems. Upon completion of this program, students are expected to acquire skills and disciplines required for designing, writing and modifying software components, modules and applications that comprise software solutions.

The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BS CS) builds competencies for these jobs: Software Engineers, System Software Engineers, Research and Development Computing Professionals, Applications Software Developers, Computer Programmers, Data Scientists, Data Analysts, Machine Learning Scientists, Machine Learning Engineers, Artificial Intelligence Engineers

The core courses for BS Computer Science (BS CS) are: Programming I & II, Introduction to Computing, Data Structures and Algorithms, Information Management, Applications Development And Emerging Technologies.

The professional courses for BS Computer Science (BS CS) are: Discrete Structures I & II, Object-oriented Programming, Algorithms & Complexity, Automata Theory & Formal Languages, Architecture & Organization, Information Assurance and Security, Human Computer Interaction, Networks & Communications, Operating Systems, Programming Languages, Practicum, Software Engineering, Social Issues & Professional Practice, CS Thesis Writing I & II, Advanced Calculus & its Applications to CS, Discrete Structures III, Digital Logic Design and Digital Computer Circuits, Data Analytics, Mobile Development, Intelligent Systems.

The elective courses for BS Computer Science (BS CS) are: Natural Language Processing, Digital Image Processing, Robotics, Parallel & Distributed Computing, Game Development, Fundamentals of Business Analytics, Enterprise Data Management, Analytics Modeling, Analytics Technique and Tools, Data Mining, Numerical Methods, Graph Theory, Linear Regression.


Bachelor of Science in Economics / BS Economics / BS ECON

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Economics (BS ECON) is designed to produce specialists who are capable of applying the analytical and empirical tools of the discipline in a variety of settings. The program provides solid instruction in intermediate economic theory and essential applied fields which form the basis of a set of analytical tools which the graduate can readily use when confronted with both familiar and novel problems. It is also designed to produce graduates capable of gathering, processing, and harnessing data with the aid of industry standard statistical tools and to report on results in an appropriate manner depending on the setting. Given this background, the graduate is expected to be at home in any number of sectors but particularly in the fields of market analysis, public policy analysis, and business strategy. In all this, the graduate is expected to always conduct himself or herself in a manner that is ethical and especially aware of his/her responsibilities for the upliftment of the welfare of society.

The Bachelor of Science in Economics (BS ECON) builds competencies for these jobs: Data analysts, Financial analysts, Market analysts, Corporate planners, Business development managers, Project managers, Foreign exchange traders, Securities trader, Investment banker, Commercial banker, Business reporter or journalist, Policy analyst, Economic consultant, Economic development specialist, Sustainability specialist, Statistician/Econometrician, LGU administrator.

The core courses for BS Economics (BS ECON) are: Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Algebra and Trigonometry, Differential Calculus, Integral Calculus, Introduction to Mathematical Statistics, Partnership and Corporation.

The major courses for BS Economics (BS ECON) are: Intermediate Microeconomics, Intermediate Macroeconomics, Technical Writing in Economics, Database Management for Economics, Econometrics, Econometrics Laboratory, Mathematical Economics, Development Economics, Economic Research 1 and 2, Monetary Economics, Public Economics, International Economics, Institutional Economics.

The elective courses for BS Economics (BS ECON) are: Agricultural Economics, Economic History, Health Economics, History of Economic Thought, Project Development, Population Economics, Labor Economics, Industrial Economics, Managerial Economics, Social Entrepreneurship, Strategic Management.


Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering / BS Electrical Engineering / BS EE

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BS EE) program produces electrical engineering graduates equipped with knowledge and skills in the design, development and implementation of systems and equipment utilizing electricity. The program includes general education courses, engineering mathematics and natural sciences to initiate the development of program outcomes and ensure that the graduates can understand and articulate the nature of their special roles in society and the impact of their work on the environment. The BSEE program is designed to guarantee a certain breadth of knowledge in electrical engineering that enables students to analyze and design solutions for complex engineering problems.

The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BS EE) builds competencies for these jobs: Electrical Systems Design Engineer, Electrical Equipment Design Engineer, Power Plant Engineer, Electrical Operations Engineer, Electrical Installation Engineer, Electrical Works Contractor, Energy Auditor, Electrical Maintenance Engineer, Electrical Sales Engineer, Field Service Engineer, System Control Engineer, Electrical Test Engineer, Transmission Line Field Service Engineer, Distribution System Field Service Engineer.

The core courses for BS Electrical Engineering (BS EE) are: Differential and Integral Calculus, Chemistry for Engineers, Physics for Engineers, Engineering Data Analysis, Basic Occupational Safety and Health, Computer Programming, Electronic Circuits: Devices and Analysis, Logic Circuits and Switching Theory, Fundamentals of Electronic Communications, Microprocessor Systems, Computer Aided Drafting, Engineering Economics, Engineering Management, Research Methods, Technopreneurship.

The professional courses for BS Electrical Engineering (BS EE) are: DC and AC Circuits, EE Law, Codes and Professional Ethics, Engineering Mathematics for EE, Electrical Technology, Electromagnetics for EE, Numerical Methods and Analysis, Feedback Control Systems for EE, Electrical Standards and Practices, Electrical Apparatus and Devices, Electrical Machines, Materials Science and Engineering for EE, Industrial Electronics for EE, Instrumentation and Control, Electrical Safety, Power Systems Analysis, Management of Engineering Projects, Distribution Systems and Substation Design, Fundamentals of Power Plant Engineering Design, Electrical Systems and Illumination Engineering Design, Methods of Research, Research Project.

The elective courses for BS Electrical Engineering (BS EE) are: Renewable Energy, Energy Access, Energy Efficiency, Energy Systems Modeling and Assessment, Energy Management, Automation and Control, Introduction to LabVIEW, Introduction to Robotics, Programmable Logic Circuits.


Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering / BS Electronics Engineering / BS ECE

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering (BS ECE) program produces electronic engineers equipped with knowledge and skills that deal with the development and application of electronic devices and systems. The program introduces general education courses, engineering mathematics and natural sciences to initiate the development of program outcomes and ensure that the graduates can understand and articulate the nature of their special roles in society and the impact of their work on the environment. Also, the program is designed to guarantee a certain breadth of knowledge in electronics engineering which enables the students to analyze and design solutions for complex engineering problems.

The Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering (BS ECE) builds competencies for these jobs: Electronics Design and Development Engineer, Product Engineer, Process/Manufacturing Engineer, Integrated Circuit (IC) Design Engineer, RF Engineer, Hardware/Firmware/Software Engineer, Electronic Test Engineer, Telecommunications Field Service Engineer, Transmission Engineer, Instrumentation and System Control Engineer, Robotics and Automation Engineer, Building Management System Engineer, Safety Engineer

The core courses for BS Electrical Engineering (BS ECE) are: Differential and Integral Calculus, Chemistry for Engineers, Physics for Engineers, Physics 2, Engineering Data Analysis, Computer-Aided Drafting, Engineering Economics, Environmental Science and Engineering, Material Science and Engineering, Technopreneurship, Circuits

The professional courses for BS Electrical Engineering (BS ECE) are: Computer Programming, Electronic Technology, Differential Equations with EEE Applications, Advanced Engineering Mathematics for ECE, Electromagnetics, Microprocessor & Microcontroller Systems and Design, Electronic Devices and Circuits, Electronics Circuit Analysis and Design, Spectra and Signal Processing, Principles of Communication Systems, Modulation and Coding Techniques, Transmission Media, Antenna System and Design, Data Communications, Logic Circuits and Switching Theory, Mechatronics, Feedback and Control Systems, Electronic Systems and Design, ECE Laws, Contracts, Ethics and Safety, Methods of Research, Research Project.

The elective courses for BS Electronics Engineering (BS ECE) are: Digital Systems Design Using Verilog, Analog Integrated Circuit Design, Semiconductor Device Fundamentals, Power Electronics, Building Auxiliary Systems and Design, Instrumentation and Measurement using LabVIEW, Embedded Controller Design and Implementation, Robotics, Advanced Instrumentation and Control, Microwave Engineering, Trends in Wireless Communications, Analog and Digital Communications Systems Design, Antenna Design, Modelling and Simulation, Electromagnetic Compatibility.


Bachelor of Science in Entrepreneurship / BS Entrepreneurship / BS ENTP

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Entrepreneurship (BS ENTP) is designed to equip students with the necessary skills and competencies in creating, registering and managing their own business enterprises. This program aims to provide direction to those interested in the management of a start-up enterprise in local and international contexts. It further examines the fundamental knowledge and understanding of approaches of business strategies and processes to generate innovative business ideas and development of enterprise to address the social and commercial needs.

The Bachelor of Science in Entrepreneurship (BS ENTP) builds competencies for these jobs: Business Owners, Managers in the field of Business Development and Corporate Planning.

The core courses for BS Entrepreneurship (BS ENTP) are: Basic Microeconomics, Human Resource Management, Good Governance & Social Responsibility, Income Taxation, International Business and Trade, Financial Management – Financial Analysis for Decision Making, Market Research and Consumer Behavior, Business Analytics, Operations Management, Total Quality Management, Strategic Management.

The professional courses for BS Entrepreneurship (BS ENTP) are: Entrepreneurial Behavior, Opportunity Seeking 1 and 2, Social Entrepreneurship 1, Social Entrepreneurship 2-Immersion, Business Plan Preparation, Business Plan Implementation 1 – Product Development & Market Analysis,, Business Plan Implementation 2 & 3 & 4, Business Accelerator, Pricing and Costing, Business Law and Taxation with focus on Laws Affecting MSMEs, Programs and Policies on Enterprise Development, Innovation Management.

The elective courses for BS Entrepreneurship (BS ENTP) are: Entrepreneurial Marketing Strategies, Project Management, Managing an Enterprise (Manufacturing and Services), Wholesale and Retail Sales Management.


Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management / BS Hospitality Management / BS HM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BS HM) is for those who want to translate their passion for food, travel and people into management careers as experts and entrepreneurs in the restaurant and accommodation industry. This program develops practitioners into hospitality experts combined with management competencies earning a total of seven (7) National Certifications. Our broad range of undergraduate courses reflects the diversity of the service sector and is specially designed to meet the needs of the hospitality industry in the 21st century. Students will be exposed to careers in the hospitality industry through an immersion program in our very own functional and student-run school hotel (The Carolinian Inn). This will be strengthened with additional internship in several accredited host training establishments like hotels, restaurants, resorts and other hospitality-related establishments both here and abroad. Students will be given the opportunity to learn a foreign language of choice: Mandarin, French, Spanish or Japanese.

The Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BS HM) builds competencies for these jobs:, Bartender, Barista, Restaurant Captain waiter/ Supervisor/ Manager, Bar Captain/ Supervisor/Manager, Room Service Captain/ Supervisor/Manager, Sommelier, Shift leader/Team Leader, Maitred Hotel, F and B Director, F and B outlet Captain/ Supervisor/ Manager, Cabin Steward/ Supervisor/Manager, Housekeeping ( Public Area/Floor/Laundry/Linen Section Supervisor), Executive Housekeeper, Laundry/ Linen Manager, Front Office Supervisor/Manager, Night Duty Supervisor/ Manager, Night Duty Auditor, Rooms Division Supervisor Manager, Reservations Supervisor/Manager, Receptions Supervisor/ Manager, Bell service Captain/ Supervisor/Manager, Sales and Marketing Supervisor/ Manager/ Director, Convention/Event and Entertainment Coordinator/Supervisor/ Manager, Exhibit/Organizers/ Events Planners, Research Directors, Convention and Event Supervisor/Manager, Public Relations Supervisor/Manager, Spa Supervisor/Manager, Sports/Activity Supervisor/Manager/ Director, Leisure and Recreation Coordinator/Supervisor/Manager/Director.

The core courses for BS Hospitality Management (BS HM) are: Philippine Culture and Tourism Geography, Risk management as applied to safety, Security and Sanitation, Quality Service management in Tourism and Hospitality, Legal Aspects in Tourism and Hospitality, Macro Perspective of Tourism and Hospitality, Professional Development and Applied Ethics, Multicultural Diversity in Workplace for the Tourism Professional, Tourism and Hospitality Marketing, Micro Perspective of Tourism and Hospitality, Entrepreneurship in Tourism and Hospitality.

The professional courses for BS Hospitality Management (BS HM) are: Kitchen Essentials and Basic Food Preparation, Fundamentals in Food Service Operations, Fundamentals in Lodging Operations, Applied Business Tools and Technologies, Supply Chain Management in Hospitality Management, Introduction to Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events Management (MICE), Ergonomics and Facilities Planning for the Hospitality Industry, Foreign Language 1, Foreign Language 2, Research in Hospitality.

The elective courses for BS Hospitality Management (BS HM) are: Barista, Art appreciation in the Hospitality Industry, Mixology, World Geography, Oenology, Sustainable Hospitality, Food Styling and Design, Fundamentals of Food Science and Technology, Cruise line Operations and Management, Recreation and Leisure Management.

The TESDA National Certifications (NCII/NCIII) available for BS Hospitality Management (BS HM) are: Housekeeping, Food and Beverage Services, Front Office Services, Cookery, Barista, Bartending, Events Management Services.


Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering / BS Industrial Engineering / BS IE

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering (BS IE) equips students with fundamental core Engineering competencies (i.e., physical and social sciences, mathematics, and allied courses) integrated with mandatory Industrial Engineering courses necessary to enable IE students to describe the detailed and dynamic complexity of real manufacturing and service systems. The understanding of the essence of the systems and its components activates the student’s ability to discern problems and identify root causes, which then increase the effectiveness of the recommendations to improve the system. On top of those core and professional courses, the program is augmented with electives necessary to stay relevant and updated with the changes in the competency needs in the industry. These are also in place to further the student’s interest in the three major clusters of the program: (1) Production Engineering, (2) Organizational and Decision Sciences, and (3) Human Factors Engineering.

The Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering (BS IE) builds competencies for these jobs: Customer Service Engineers, Ergonomists, Logistics and Supply Chain Managers, Management System Engineers, Methods Engineers, Manufacturing Engineers, Operations Engineers, Operations Research Analysts, Planning Engineers, Project Engineers, Quality Assurance Engineers, Research Engineers, Systems Analysts, Technopreneurs.

The core courses for BS Industrial Engineering (BS IE)  are: Differential Calculus, Integral Calculus, Differential Equation with IE Applications, Computer Aided Drafting, Principles of Economics, Physics for Engineers, Chemistry for Engineers, Engineering Mechanics, Managerial Accounting, Programming for IE, Financial Accounting, Engineering Economics, Technopreneurship, Computer Fundamentals and Programming, Thermodynamics, Elementary Electrical Engineering, Occupational Safety and Health, Environmental Science.

The professional courses for BS Industrial Engineering (BS IE) are: Industrial Organization and Management, Industrial Materials and Processes, Statistical Analysis, Industrial Statistics Applications, Work Systems, Advanced Mathematics, Deterministic Models in Decisions Sciences, Stochastic Models in Decision Sciences, Physical Ergonomics, Cognitive Ergonomics, Quality Management Systems, Project Management, Market Research and Product/ Service Development, Industrial Simulations, Operations Management, Human Resource Management, Research Techniques and Design, Feasibility Study, Supply Chain Management, Information Systems.


Bachelor of Science in Information Systems / BS Information Systems / BS IS

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Information Systems program is the study of information technology applications and effects on organizations. This program leads students to implement effective information systems including its components, tools, techniques, strategies and methodologies in various enterprise and organizational settings. The program intends to produce graduates who can assist and lead organizations in determining how information and technology-enabled business processes can be used as a strategic tool in the ever-changing business environment.

The Bachelor of Science in Information Systems (BS IS) builds competencies for these jobs: Organizational Process Analysts, Data Analysts, Business System Analysts or Designers, Solutions Specialists, System Analysts, IS Project Management Personnel, Application Developers, Database Developers, Database Administrators, End User Trainers, Documentation Specialists, Quality Assurance Specialists.

The core courses for BS Information Systems (BS IS) are: Programming I & II, Introduction to Computing, Data Structures and Algorithms, Information Management, Applications Development And Emerging Technologies.

The professional courses for BS Information Systems (BS IS) are: Fundamentals of Information Systems, Organization and Management Concepts, IT Infrastructure and Network Technologies, Professional Issues in Information Systems, Introduction to Information Science, Financial Management, Collection Management of Information Resources, Systems Analysis and Design, Enterprise Architecture, Business Process Management, Information Resources and Services, Accounting for IS, IS Project Management, Evaluation of Business Performance, Quantitative Methods, IS Strategy Management and Acquisition, Capstone 1 and 2, Practicum 1 and 2, Seminars and Tours.

The elective courses for BS Information Systems (BS IS) are: Decision Support Systems, Business Process Engineering, Technopreneurship, Information Engineering, Business Laws, Information Assurance and Security, Human Computer Interaction, Supply Chain Management, Practical Data Science, Systems Quality Testing and Assurance, and Decision Analysis.


Bachelor of Science in Information Technology / BS Information Technology / BS IT

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BS IT) program includes the study of the utilization of both hardware and software technologies involving planning, installing, customizing, operating, managing, administering, and maintaining information technology infrastructure that provides computing solutions to address the needs of an organization. The program prepares graduates to address various user needs involving the selection, development, application, integration, and management of computing technologies within an organization.

The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BS IT) builds competencies for these jobs: Web and Applications Developers, Junior Database Administrators, Systems Administrators, Network Engineers, Junior Information Security Administrators, Systems Integration Personnel, IT Audit Assistants, Quality Assurance Specialists, Systems Analysts, Computer Programmers, Data Analysts

The core courses for BS Information Technology (BS IT) are: Programming I & II, Introduction to Computing, Data Structures and Algorithms, Information Management, Applications Development And Emerging Technologies.

The professional courses for BS Information Technology (BS IT) are: Human Computer Interaction, Information Assurance & Security, Information Management, Integrative Programming and Technologies, Networking, Platform Technologies, Systems Administration & Maintenance, Systems Integration & Architecture, Social and Professional Issues, Web Systems and Technologies, Practicum, Capstone I & II, Discrete Structures, Digital Logic Design, Object Oriented Programming, Probability and Statistics, System Analysis & Design, Software Quality Assurance, Accounting for IT, Fundamentals of Data Warehousing & Data Mining, Linux Operating System, Quantitative Methods, Research Methods in Computing, IT Seminars.

The elective courses for BS Information Technology (BS IT) are: Business Analytics for IT, Enterprise Analysis & Modelling, Mobile Software Development, Game Development, Network Management, Network Security, Cloud Infrastructure and Services.


Bachelor of Science in Interior Design / BS Interior Design / BS ID

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Interior Design (BS ID) readies its graduates to demonstrate critical and analytical thinking of the principles, philosophies and theoretical frameworks of the interior design discipline, and exhibit values and ethics of the interior design discipline in relation to health, safety, and public welfare. This program enables graduates to be receptive to the needs and demands of society and acquire the capacity to integrate these into the social, economic, cultural and environmental aspects of nation-building for sustainable development.

The Bachelor of Science in Interior Design (BS ID) builds competencies for these jobs: Interior Construction Manager, Interior Decorator, Furniture Designer/Product Designer, Sales Designer, Buyer, Specifier Property Agent, Artisanal Craftsman, Visual Merchandiser, Set and Stage Designer, Materials Specialist, Lighting Designer, Renderer, Visualiser, Model Maker, CADD Manager and Operator, Interior Stylist (Photographer, Florist and Plantscaper).

The core courses for BS Interior Design (BS ID) are: Visual Communications – Drafting and Drawing and Rendering, Computer Aided Design and Drafting, Design Theory and Fundamentals, Research and Statistics

The professional courses for BS Interior Design (BS ID) are: General Interior Design, Furniture Design and Construction with Apprenticeship, Materials of Design and Decoration (Hard and Soft Components), History of Arts and Interior Design, Interior Construction and Utilities with Environmental Systems, Color and Light Theory, Professional Practice and Ethics.

The elective courses for BS Interior Design (BS ID) are: Portfolio Development and Branding for the Interior Design Practice, Interior Styling and Photography, Interior Floral Design and Plantscaping, Artisanal Crafts and Home Decors, Sustainable and Tropical Interior Design, Architectural Conservation Principles and Policies with Liturgical Arts, Architectural Conservation Methods and Materials, Audio Design and Acoustics, Lighting Design, Advanced Form Finding and Modeling and Prototyping, Digital Presentation and Animation.


Bachelor of Landscape Architecture / B Landscape Architecture / B LA

Description:
Landscape Architecture deals with the act of planning, designing, specifying, supervising and providing general administration and responsible direction to the functional, orderly and aesthetic arrangement, changing and development of natural scenery and land areas to produce the most desirable effect for human use and enjoyment of various outdoor spaces, the protection, conservation and rehabilitation of the natural environment and scenery to enhance the ecological system and quality of life. The Bachelor in Landscape Architecture (B LA) program recognizes the importance of landscape architecture in nation-building as well as the promotion of the preservation and the conservation of the environment and cultural landscapes for the enjoyment, health and safety of the general public.

The Bachelor of Landscape Architecture (B LA) builds competencies for these jobs: Landscape Architect (Landscape Design, Outdoor sculpture and Garden furniture Design, Site Development/ Landscape Architectural Programming), Landscape Design Consultant (Historic Preservation and Restoration, Site Selection and Analysis, Site Utilization and Land Use Studies, Potentials Assessment, Economic Feasibility Studies, Space Management Studies, Visual Resources Inventory and Assessment, Expert Witness Service, Review of Plans and Design Made by others ), Urban & Regional Planner (Site Planning, Park and Recreation Planning, Ecological Planning and Design), Landscape Contractor (Construction and Project Management, Landscape Installation), Park Administrator (Property Development & Management), Researcher (Environmental Impact Assessment / Initial Environmental Examination, Project Promotions, Landscape Developments).

The core courses for B Landscape Architecture (B LA) are: Visual Communications – Drafting and Drawing and Rendering, Computer Aided Design and Drafting, Design Theory and Fundamentals.

The professional courses for B Landscape Architecture (B LA) are: Landscape Architecture Design and Planning, Ecology and Nature Conservation, Landscaping Technology and Materials, Planting Design and Interior Plantscaping, Professional Practice and Ethics, History of Landscape Architecture and Theory of Design.

The elective courses for B Landscape Architecture (B LA) are: Conservation principles, policies & liturgical arts, Conservation methods & materials, Advanced form finding, modeling and prototyping, History & Theory of Urban Design, Architectural Journalism.


Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting / BS Management Accounting / BS MA

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting (BS MA) is a program that is designed to prepare students to acquire differential advantage through academic training in vital decision making and critical thinking. The training from the program will eventually lead to the attainment of the international certification, "Certified Management Accountant", which will help them achieve demanding but rewarding career options and enable them to become future management leaders. Its primary goal is to produce competent and ethical professional management accountants capable of making a positive contribution over their lifetime to the profession and society in which they work. The program fosters wealth creation through the innovation of accounting products, services, and systems that could enhance the income generating capabilities of the organization. Moreover, it promotes wealth management by stabilizing organizational resources through sound planning and control procedures. Furthermore, wealth distribution is nurtured through the creation of more employment opportunities, thereby stimulating economic growth by introducing innovative management accounting services as a result of the professional management accountant's advice, mentoring, influence of best practices and advocating fair reporting.

The Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting (BS MA) builds competencies for these jobs: Junior Analysts, Consulting Staff, Financial Advisors, Cost Analysts, Investment Analysts, Management Accounting Staff, Tax Accounting Staff, Financial Analysts, Budget Analysts, Credit Analysts, Cost Accountants, State Accounting Examiners, NBI Agents, Treasury Agents, State Accountants, LGU Accountants, Revenue Officers, Audit Examiners, Budget Officers, Financial Services Specialists, Chief Financial Officers, Chief Information Officers

The core courses for BS Management Accounting (BS MA) are: Conceptual Frameworks and Accounting Standards, Law on Obligations and Contracts, Management Science, introduction to Partnership and Corporation, Intermediate Accounting 1, 2, and 3, Business Laws and Regulations, Cost Accounting and Control, Governance, Business Ethics. Risk Management. and Internal Control, Management Accounting, Regulatory Framework and Legal Issues in Business, Accounting information Systems, Income Taxation, Economic Development, Information Technology (IT) Application Tools in Business, Financial Accounting and Reporting, Statistical Analysis with Software Application, Business Tax, Financial Markets and Basic Finance, International Business and Trade, Accounting Research Proposal, Managerial Economics, Financial Management, Strategic Cost Management, Final Accounting Thesis Wilting, Management accounting internship

The professional courses for BS Management Accounting (BS MA) are: Human behavior in organizations, Performance management systems, Valuation metnods, Accounting for Business Canbinations, Accounting for Government and Non-profit Organizations, Sustainatiiity and Strategic Audit, Project management, Strategic tax management.

The elective courses for BS Management Accounting (BS MA) are: External Financial Reporting Decisions, Planning, Budgeting and Forecasting, Internal Control and Controls to Manage Risk, Cost Amounting Systems and Cost Management, Performance Management, Corporate Finance, Short-term and Long-term Decision-Making with Decision Analysis, Risk Management and Uncertainty Investment. Financing and Dividend Decisions, Cost Planning and Analysis for Competitive Advantage, Control and Performance Management of Responsibility Centers, Management Control and Risk, Regulatory Environment for Financial Reporting and Corporate Governance, Financial Accounting and Reporting with Analysis of Financial Performance and Position Fundamentals of Taxation, Management of Working Capital, Cash and Sources of Short-Term Finance, Derivatives, Mergers & Acquisitions, Interacting with the Organization's Environment, Evaluating Strategic Position and Strategic Options, Managing Risks Associated with Cash Flows and Capital Investment Decisions, Formulation of Financial Strategy.


Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology / BS Marine Biology / BS M BIO

Description:
Marine Biology, as a discipline, finds its role in the creation of human resource that will steward the vast marine resources of the Philippines, which has the 5th longest coastline in the world (36,289 Kilometers) and strategically located in the heart of the Coral Triangle. More importantly, the Philippines’ global recognition as the marine resource in food, medicine, tourism, materials, energy, climate, security and pharmaceuticals should be acknowledged. The Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology (BS M BIO) program aims to develop graduates that will have a clear recognition and understanding of the dynamics of the marine life and its ecosystem through actual field or hands-on experience which will provide the foundations for future careers in marine biology, conservation, oceanography, biomedicine, molecular biology, university teaching, fisheries, etc.

The Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology (BS M BIO) builds competencies for these jobs: Marine Biologists, Fisheries Management Officers, Coastal Resource Managers, Fisheries Technologists, Project Development Officers, Aquaculture & Mariculture Specialists, Marine Biology Research Specialists

The core courses for BS Marine Biology (BS M BIO) are: General Physiology, Cell and Molecular Biology, General Ecology, General Oceanography, Genetics, Chemical Oceanography, Development & Reproductive Biology, Introduction to Marine Botany, Marine Invertebrates, Marine Vertebrates, Elements of Research, Marine Ecology, Coral Reefs, Coastal Resources Management, Marine Microbiology & Fungi, Systematics, Biodiversity & Evolution, Biophysics I & II, Integrative Calculus, Inorganic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, BioStatistics, BioChemistry, Earth Science, BioCalculus

The elective courses for BS Marine Biology (BS M BIO) are: Marine BioTechnology, Marine Plankton, Introduction to Mariculture & Management.


Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering / BS Mechanical Engineering / BS ME

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) begins with the study of the behavior of materials upon the application of forces and/or heat manifested by moving things. Anything that is mechanical or interacts with another machine or human being is within the broad scope of mechanical engineering. The core and professional courses enable students to acquire useful skills that can gain national or international certifications. These help students go through capstone courses of Power Plant Design, Industrial Plant Design, and Machine Design. To give the students a culminating experience, community-based research is required prior to a whole semester of on-the-job training before graduation. Graduates of the program are capable of designing and operating space vehicles, power plants, intelligent machines and robots, automobiles, trains, airplanes, furnaces, and air-conditioners. They can work on jet engine design, submarines, hot air balloons, advanced materials, hospital equipment, refrigerators, air-conditioners, and other machineries.

The Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) builds competencies for these jobs: Automotive Design Engineer, Ship Building Mechanical Engineer, Aerospace engineer, Building Ventilation Engineer, Mining Engineer, Product Development Engineer, Project Engineer, Facilities and Maintenance Engineer, Instrumentation and Control Engineer, Robotics and Automation Engineer, Building Management System Engineer, Research and Development Engineer, Process Manufacturing Engineer, Designer and Maker of Machineries, Inventor of Machines, Patent Attorney, Production Manager, University Professor, Power Plant Consultant, Acoustic Consultant, Contractor.

The core courses for BS Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) are: Differential and Integral Calculus, Chemistry for Engineers, Physics for Engineers, Physics 2, Engineering Data Analysis, Computer-Aided Drafting, Engineering Economics, Environmental Science and Engineering, Material Science and Engineering, Technopreneurship, Circuits, Basic Occupational Safety and Health, Methods of Research.

The professional courses for BS Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) are: Machine Design, Power Plant Design with Renewable Energy, Industrial Plant Engineering, Mechanical Engineering Laws, Ethics, Codes and Standards, Mechanical Engineering Thesis, Vibration Engineering, Air Conditioning and Ventilation Systems, Refrigeration Systems, Fluid Machineries, Control Engineering, Machine Shop Theory and Practice, Manufacturing and Industrial Processes with Plant Visits, Heat Transfer, Combustion Engineering, Thermodynamics, Machine Elements, Computer Aided Mechanical Drafting.

The elective courses for BS Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) are: Safety of Motor Vehicles, Automotive Engine Control, Solar and Wind Energy Utilization, Micro-Hydro-Electric Power Generation, Energy Management in Buildings, Indoor Environment Quality in Buildings, Gas Compressors and Gas Turbines, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Industrial and Residential Piping System, Mechatronics and Industrial Robotics.

The TESDA National Certifications available for BS Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) are: Mechatronics Servicing NC IV, Machining NC III, CNC Milling Machine Operation NC III, CAD CAM Operation NC III, Shielded Metal Arc Welding NC II, Mechanical Drafting NC II, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning NC II. The International Certifications available for BS Mechanical Engineering (BS ME) are: SOLIDWORKS Certification (Dassault Systèmes SolidWorks Corporation), Autodesk Certified Professional (Certiport, NCS Pearson Inc.).


Bachelor of Science in Nursing / BS Nursing / BS N

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BS N) is designed for professional nursing education comprising theory and practice with a view of the global employability of the nurse graduates to provide health services in the areas of Medical-Surgical Care, Maternal-Child Care, Elderly Care, Hospital Administration, Community Health, Psychiatric Mental Health, Emergency and Disaster Nursing, Telenursing, and Nursing Research.

The Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BS N) builds competencies for these jobs: Entry Level (Nurse Assistant, Nurse Aide), Nurse 1 (Staff Nurse [Assessment, Diagnosis, Treatment, Documentation & Evaluation], Military Hospital Nurse, Private Nurse), Nurse 2 (Charge Nurse, Phlebotomist, Intravenous Nurse, Dialysis nurse), Nurse 3 (Nurse Supervisor, Administrative Officer, Critical Care Nurse [ICU], Asst. Chief Nurse [with responsibilities on scheduling, motivating, evaluation, handling grievances, interviewing, & staff development]), Nurse 4 (Chief Nurse), Industry Nurse, Occupational Nurse, Veterinary Nurse, Nurse Midwife, Tele-Nurse (BPO), Health Insurance Nurse, Paramedic, Flight Nurse, Nurse Manager, Nurse Case Manager, Clinical Instructor, Clinical Researcher, Dean of Nursing School, School Nurse, Rural Health Nurse, Public Health Officer, Hospice Nurse, Nurse Educator, Psychiatric Mental Health Specialist, Forensic Psychiatric Nurse, Health Informatics Specialist, Diabetes Care Specialist, Cardiovascular Nurse Specialist, Nurse Anesthesiologist, Renal Nurse, Stroke Nurse.

The core courses for BS Nursing (BS N) are: Biochemistry, Biochemistry laboratory, Anatomy & Physiology, Anatomy & Physiology laboratory, Microbiology & Parasitology, Microbiology & Parasitology laboratory.

The professional courses for BS Nursing (BS N) are: Theoretical Foundations in Nursing, Health Assessment, Health Education, Fundamentals of Nursing Practice, Community Health Nursing I, Nutrition & Diet Therapy, Nutrition and Diet Therapy laboratory, Pharmacology, Care of Mother, Child, and Adolescent [Well client], Health Care Ethics (Bioethics) (3u), Care of Mother and Child [At-risk client], Nursing Informatics, Nursing Informatics laboratory, Nursing Research I, Care of Clients with Problems in Oxygenation, Fluid and Electrolytes, Infectious, Inflammatory and Immunologic Response - Cellular Aberration - Acute and Chronic, Care of Older Person, Nursing Research II (2u RLE), Care of Clients with Problems in Nutrition, and Gastro-intestinal Metabolism and Endocrine, Perception and Coordination (Acute and Chronic), Care of Clients with Maladaptive Patterns of Behavior, Acute and Chronic, Nursing Care of Clients with Life-Threatening Conditions, Acutely Ill/ Multi-organ Problems, High Acuity and Emergency Situation, Acute and Chronic, Nursing Leadership & Management, Palliative Care, Intensive Nursing Practicum, Disaster Nursing, Quality in Health Care and Nursing

An elective course offered for BS Nursing (BS N) is The Entrepreneurial Mind.


Bachelor of Science in Nutrition and Dietetics / BS Nutrition and Dietetics / BS ND

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) consists of general education and professional courses. The last two terms of the program are devoted to field practice in hospital dietetics, food service and public health nutrition equipping graduates with competence in those same areas. Overall, this program produces a competent Nutritionist-Dietitian with a heart who promotes optimal nutrition, health and well-being of the community through nutrition care.

The Bachelor of Science in Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) builds competencies for these jobs: Dietary Service Directors, Chief Dietitians, Administrative Dietitians, Therapeutic Dietitians, Food Service Managers, Food Service Consultants, Food Entrepreneurs, Community Nutritionists, Nutrition Action Officers, Project Evaluation Officers, Sports Nutritionists, Nutrition Coaches, Diet Consultant, Quality Assurance Managers, Food Product Developers, Food Product Demonstrators, Food Consultants, Nutritional Supplement Sales Representative, Nutrition Support Dietitians, Renal Dietitians, Oncology Dietitians, Diabetes Dietitians, Cardiovascular Dietitians

The core courses for BS Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) are: Biochemistry, Microbiology and Parasitology, Anatomy and Physiology, Biostatistics, Accounting, Developmental Psychology, English (Technical Writing), Logic, Health Economics, Principles & Strategies of Teaching.

The professional courses for BS Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) are: Basic Foods I and II, Cooking Fundamentals, Basic Nutrition, Meal Management, Fundamentals of Food Technology, Nutritional Assessment, Food Service System I and II, Nutrition in the Life Stages I and II, Nutrition Care Process, Culinary Nutrition, Nutrition Therapy I and II, Public Health Nutrition, Nutrition Education, Food and Nutrition Research I and II, Seminar on Food Science and Nutrition.

An elective course offered for BS Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) is The Entrepreneurial Mind.

The practicum courses for BS Nutrition and Dietetics (BS ND) are: Hospital Dietetics, Food service, Public Health Nutrition.


Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy / BS Pharmacy / BS PHARM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy (BS PHARM) is an outcomes-based program that offers a good mix of general education courses, which have relevant applications in the profession of pharmacy, and professional courses which will prepare the graduates in acquiring competencies necessary in the workplace. Courses in pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmaceutics and the life and medical sciences will enhance the understanding of pharmaceutical product development and their applications in pharmacy practice including patient care. Theories learned are supported by laboratory work where students are allowed to tinker and discover through activities and experiments. In their fourth year an internship program is included which involves assigning students to different CHED-accredited affiliation establishments covering a minimum of 1200 hours. Student interns, during the course of the internship or supervised pharmacy practice experience, will have exposure to a variety of opportunities in areas that will prepare them for the different roles expected of them upon graduation. Upon completion of the program, graduates are equipped with the necessary knowledge, up-to-date skills, and the right attitude to work as a licensed pharmacist.

The Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy (BS PHARM) builds competencies for these jobs: Community Pharmacists, Hospital Pharmacists, Clinical Pharmacists, Manufacturing Pharmacists, Regulatory Pharmacists, Compounding Pharmacists, Pharmaceutical Pharmacists, Academic Pharmacists, Corporate Managing Pharmacists, Drugstore Owners or Pharmacy Store Owners.

The core courses for BS Pharmacy (BS PHARM) are: Pharmaceutical Botany with Taxonomy, Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Human Physiology and Pathophysiology, Pharmaceutical Biochemistry.

The professional courses for BS Pharmacy (BS PHARM) are: Perspectives in Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Calculations and Techniques, Pharmaceutical Inorganic Chemistry, Introduction to the Health Care System, Introduction to Pharmacy Administration, Management, and Leadership, Pharmaceutical Analysis 1 and 2, Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms, Drug Delivery Systems, and Medical Devices, Dispensing 1 and 2 (includes medication related problems, medication safety, and medication counseling), Physical Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Microbiology and Parasitology, Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Organic Chemistry, Pharmacognosy and Plant Chemistry, Pharmacology 1 and 2, Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Pharmacy Informatics, Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing (with Quality Assurance and Current Good Manufacturing Practices), Drug Discovery and Development, Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacotherapeutics 1 and 2, Pharmaceutical Research Methods with Statistics, Hospital Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Toxicology, Public Health Pharmacy (with Pharmacoepidemiology), Cosmetics Product Development, Regulation, and Safety Assessment, Pharmacy Research and Thesis Writing, Health Technology Assessment and Health Policy ( with Pharmacoeconomics), Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Marketing and Entrepreneurship, Legal Pharmacy and Ethics.


Bachelor of Science in Psychology / BS Psychology / BS PSYCH

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BS PSYCH) program intends to equip students with the fundamental skills required in Psychology. Importantly, it also aims to prepare the student for Life! The strategy rests on two pillars: develop academic competence and nurture personal wellness. Various areas of the discipline are introduced such as Social Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology, Clinical Psychology, and Guidance and Counselling among other things. On the wellness aspect, the program includes activities that are designed to help prepare students pursue and sustain better well-being through sessions on self-awareness/discovery, career pathing, relationship enhancement, spiritual retreat and the like. It is holistic development through Competence and Wellness.

The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BS PSYCH) builds competencies for these jobs: Psychometricians, HR Managers, HR Specialists, Recruitment Officers, Compben Specialists, Organizational Development Specialists, Employee Relations Officers, Training Officers, Public Relations Officers, Psychosocial Intervention Specialists, Community Organizers, Sales and Marketing Officers, Researchers, Team Building Trainers, Life Coaches, Event Organizers, Costumer Service Specialists.

The core courses for BS Psychology (BS PSYCH) are: General Zoology, General Zoology Laboratory, Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates, Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates Laboratory, Basic Concepts of Physical Science, Basic Concepts of Physical Science Laboratory, General Chemistry, General and Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory.

The professional courses for BS Psychology (BS PSYCH) are: Physiological Psychology, Positive Psychology, Developmental, Theories of Personality I and II, Field Methods in Psychology, Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Social Psychology, Psychological Assessment, Industrial/Organizational Psychology I and II, Group Process, Writing in Psychology, Abnormal Psychology I, Counseling Theories, Tools and Theories, Training and Development, Filipino Psychology/Sikolohiyang Filipino, Review in Psychology.


Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management / BS Tourism Management / BS TM

Description:
The Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management (BS TM) is for those who want to translate their passion for events, travel and tourism into management careers as experts and entrepreneurs in the tourism industry. This program leads to expertise in managing travel and tour management companies earning a total of four (4) National Certifications. The program also aims to address the need for professionals who can contribute to the development and promotion of a vibrant yet sustainable and socially-responsive tourism industry in the Philippines. The combination of theories learned inside the classroom, local and international exposures and on-the-job training will prepare the students to become globally competitive professionals in tourism management operations. Students will be given the opportunity to learn a foreign language of choice: Mandarin, French, Spanish or Japanese.

The Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management (BS TM) builds competencies for these jobs: Marketing Analyst, Customer Analyst, Merchandising/Advertising Analyst, Domestic/International travel Counsellor, Tour and Travel Planner/Analyst, Economic Development specialist, Ticketing Supervisor/Manager, Airline Supervisor/Manager, Reservations Supervisor/Manager, Sales and Marketing Supervisor/Manager, Product Development Supervisor/Manager, Tourism Coordinator/Supervisor/Manager, Customer Service Quality Supervisor/ Manager/Director, Recreation/Events/Theme park Supervisor/ Manager/Director, Tourism Center Manager/Director, Direction for Customer Care, Senior manager of Strategy and Marketing, Manager of travel literature, Sales and Marketing Supervisor/ Manager/Director, Convention/Event and Entertainment Coordinator/Supervisor/Manager, Exhibit/Organizers/Events Planners, Research Directors, Convention and Event Supervisor/Manager.

The core courses for BS Tourism Management (BS TM) are: Philippine Culture and Tourism Geography, Risk management as applied to safety, Security and Sanitation, Quality Service management in Tourism and Hospitality, Legal Aspects in Tourism and Hospitality, Macro Perspective of Tourism and Hospitality, Professional Development and Applied Ethics, Multicultural Diversity in Workplace for the Tourism Professional, Tourism and Hospitality Marketing, Micro Perspective of Tourism and Hospitality, Entrepreneurship in Tourism and Hospitality.

The professional courses for BS Psychology (BS PSYCH) are: Global Culture and Tourism Geography, Sustainable Tourism, Tour and Travel Management, Transportation Management, Tourism Policy Planning and Development, Foreign Language 1, Foreign Language 2, Research in Tourism, Applied Business Tools and Technologies in Tourism, Introduction to Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events Management.

The elective courses for BS Tourism Management (BS TM) are: Tourism Product Development, Philippine Gastronomical Tourism, Museology and Heritage Tourism, Cruise Tourism, Recreation and Leisure Management, Tourism Information Management, Hospitality and Tourism Business, Travel Writing and Photography, Agri-Tourism.

The TESDA National Certifications (NCII/NCIII) available for BS Tourism Management (BS TM) are: Events Management Services, Travel Services, Tourism Promotion Services, Tour Guiding.


Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Science / BS Secondary Education Major in Science / B SE-SCI

Description:
The Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Science (B SE-SCI) provides a strong theoretical and practical preparation for science teachers at the elementary and junior secondary schools in areas such as physics, chemistry, biology, earth and environmental science. The program deepens the motivation and competencies of beginning teachers as they specialize in content knowledge, facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies and delivery modes, and integrate information and communication technology in their pedagogy. A particular focus is the connected and integrated delivery of these science subjects.

The Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Science (B SE-SCI) builds competencies for these jobs: Beginning Professional Teacher in Science for Elementary and Junior Secondary Schools, Tutor and Facilitator in government, business and community-based organizations, Assistant Educational Researcher

The core courses for B Secondary Education Major in Science (B SE-SCI) are: Child and Adolescent Learners and Learning Principles, The Teaching Profession, The Teacher and Community, School Culture and Organizational Leadership, Foundation of special and Inclusive Education, Facilitating Learner-Centered Teaching, Assessment in Learning 1 & 2, Technology for Teaching and Learning - 1, The Teacher and School Curriculum, Building and Enhancing New Literacies Across the Curriculum.

The professional courses for B Secondary Education Major in Science (B SE-SCI) are: Trigonometry, College and Advanced Algebra, General Biology Lecture and Laboratory, Mechanics Lecture and Laboratory, Electricity and Magnetism Lecture and Laboratory, Thermodynamics Lecture and Laboratory, Waves and Optics Lecture and Laboratory, Modern Physics, Inorganic Chemistry Lecture and Laboratory, Organic Chemistry 1 Lecture and Laboratory, Analytical Chemistry Lecture and Laboratory, BiochemIstry, Genetics Lecture and Laboratory, Cell and Molecular Biology Lecture and Laboratory, Anatomy and Physiology Lecture and Laboratory, Microbiology and Parasitology Lecture and Laboratory, Earth Science, Astronomy, Environmental Science, Technology for Teaching and Learning 2, The Teaching of Science, Research in Teaching Science 1 & 2.

The practicum courses for B Secondary Education Major in Science (B SE-SCI) are: Field Study 1: Observation of Teaching-Learning in Actual School Environment, Field Study 2: Participation and Teaching Assistantship, Teaching Internship.


Bachelor of Special Needs Education with specialization in Early Childhood Education-Montessori Education / B Special Needs Education with specialization in Early Childhood Education / B SNE-ECE

Description:
The Bachelor of Special Needs Education in Montessori Education is designed to help future teachers acquire the competence to work with children with disabilities, e.g. those with autism, sensory impairments, emotional disturbance and developmental delays so these individuals will have better access to appropriate education and be able to achieve academic and life success. This undergraduate teacher education program will enable its graduates to teach the basic education curriculum and alternate curricula in traditional or Montessori school settings depending on the needs of the students as determined by their individual education programs.

The Bachelor of Special Needs Education in Montessori Education (B SNE-ECE) builds competencies for these jobs: Early Childhood Education (ECE) teachers, Special Education teachers, Learning support staff, Shadow teachers can teach in Montessori schools as, Montessori pre-school/lower Elementary teachers, Special Education teachers, Itinerant teachers/Shadow teachers, Learning Support, Intervention Specialists, Job/Behavior Coaches and Tutors

The core courses for B Special Needs Education in Montessori Education (B SNE-ECE) are: The Child and Adolescent Learners and Learning Principles, The Teaching Profession, Facilitating Learner-Centered Teaching, Technology for Teaching and Learning 1, Foundation of Special and Inclusive Education, Assessment in Learning 1, Assessment in Learning 2, The Teacher and the School Curriculum, The Teacher and the Community, School Culture and Organizational Leadership, Building and Enhancing New Literacies Across the Curriculum

The major courses for B Special Needs Education in Montessori Education (B SNE-ECE) are: Early Childhood Inclusive Education, Learners with Developmental Disabilities, Learners with Sensory and Physical Disabilities, Learners with Emotional, Behavioral, Language and Communication Disabilities, Gifted and Talented Learners, Instructional Adaptations in Language and Literacy Instruction, Instructional Adaptations in Mathematics and Science Instruction, Instructional Adaptations for Teaching the Content Areas (Social Sciences, Humanities), Curriculum and Pedagogy in Inclusive Education, Behavior Management and Modification, Educational Assessment of Students with Additional Needs, Development of Individualized Education Plans, Adapted Physical Education and Recreation, Music and Health, Organization and Administration of Special Education Programs Including Effective Communication with Professionals and Families, Teaching Multi-grade Classes, Research in Special Needs and Inclusive Education.

The specialization courses for B Special Needs Education in Montessori Education (B SNE-ECE) are: Foundations of Early Childhood Education (Introduction to Montessori Education), Montessori Story of Creation and Practical Life, Creative Arts, Music, and Movements in Early Childhood Education, Montessori Sensorial Education, Literacy Development (Montessori Language), Play and Developmentally Appropriate Practices in Early Childhood Education, Numeracy Development (Montessori Mathematics), Social Studies in Early Childhood Education (Montessori Cosmic Education 1 – History, Culture, Geography), Utilization of Instructional in Early Childhood Education, Science in Early Childhood Education (Montessori Cosmic Education 2 – Physical & Natural Sciences).

The practicum courses for B Special Needs Education in Montessori Education (B SNE-ECE) are: Field Study 1: Observation of Teaching-Learning in Actual School Environment, Field Study 2: Participation and Teaching Assistantship, Teaching Internship.


