TOPIC 1: DESCRIPTION

University of San Carlos (USC) is a Catholic educational institution administered since 1935 by Society of the Divine Word (SVD) missionaries. A University since 1948, USC offers the complete educational package from kindergarten, including a Montessori academy, to graduate school. Learn more about Education with a Mission and how we become Witness to the Word. USC is also referred here as University. 

Rapid growth in the ‘50s saturated the campus near the city center prompting expansion of the University to what was then called the Boys’ High School in 1956 (now North Campus), and in 1964 to the Teacher Education Center and Girls’ High School (now South Campus) and to Talamban Campus. In 2008, the erstwhile SVD Formation Center was transformed into the Montessori Campus. Currently, The University has five campuses. 

The University is one of the most respected higher education institutions in the Philippines. Programs offered have received either Level II or Level III accreditation from the Federation of Accrediting Associations of the Philippines (FAAP), as evaluated by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities (PAASCU). Seven engineering programs are also accredited by the Philippine Technological Council-Accreditation and Certification Board for Engineering and Technology (PTC-ACBET). The Philippine Commission on Higher Education (CHED) also granted Autonomous Status to the University, and designated eight (8) Centers of Excellence (COEs) and twelve (12) Centers of Development (CODs) in USC. USC ranked between 451 to 500 in the QS University Rankings for Asia 2021 and number 7 among the 100 best universities in the Philippines in 2023 per EduRank. The latter ranking is based on research outputs, non-academic prominence, non academic performance and alumni influence. In 2023, USC is among the five universities in the Philippines that have been included in the world ranking by the United Kingdom-based Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) under the 1201-1400 bracket.

Recognized as a research hub in the southern Philippines, USC has drawn in external grants amounting to PHP298M (~USD5.68M) between AY 2018-2021, including the two pandemic-affected years. Internal research grants of over PHP11M have also been awarded from internal funding within the same time period. Research efforts are supported by a print collection of over 200,000 titles and almost 10,000 non-print volumes housed in the University’s Library System, along with subscriptions to Web of Science and Science Direct. USC also publishes three scholarly journals, The Philippine Scientist, the Philippine Quarterly of Culture and Society, and Devotio: Journal of Business and Economic Studies. Additional support for researchers are available through offices or committees providing ethics review, intellectual property and innovation and technology support, and animal care and use. Nineteen patents have been filed by the University since 2012, and one start-up company, Green Enviro Management Systems (GEMS), Inc., has been established. 

Student support in the University includes an international students’ office, online enrolment, dormitories, numerous cafes and canteens, and a transport system within Talamban Campus. USC has more than 600 undergraduate and graduate scholars at any given time. Since 2014, USC has been designated as a Donee Institution by the Philippine Council of Non-Governmental Organization Certification (PCNC).