Attendance. A student who incurs unexcused absences of more than 20% of the prescribed number of class hours or laboratory periods during the term should be given NC or 5.0.

Probation and Retention. If in any term, astudent fails in one-third of the units in which he/she is enrolled, he/she should not re-enroll in the same program without approval from the School Dean and the endorsement of the Department Chair. If the student fails the second time, he/she may enroll in another program if accepted by the Department Chair concerned. A student is disqualified from the University if he/she fails the third time. 

As a general rule, disqualification from the program no longer applies to the third-year level of a four-year program and to the fourth-year level of a five-year program. However, each department may have its own retention policy with the approval of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

The grading system adopted by the University is as follows:
1.0 is equivalent to 100-95%. 1.1 is equivalent to 94%. 1.2 is equivalent to 93%. 1.3 is equivalent to 92%. 1.4 is equivalent to 91%. 1.5 is equivalent to 90%. 1.6 is equivalent to 89%, 1.7 is equivalent to 88%, 1.8 is equivalent to 87%. 1.9 is equivalent to 86%. 2.0 is equivalent to 85%. 2.1 is equivalent to  84%. 2.2 is equivalent to 83%. 2.3 is equivalent to 82%. 2.4 is equivalent to 81%. 2.5 is equivalent to  80%. 2.6 is equivalent to 79%. 2.7 is equivalent to 78%. 2.8 is equivalent to 77%. 2.9 is equivalent to  76%. 3.0 is equivalent to 75%. And 5.0 is equivalent to below 75%.

A grade of 1.0 is equal to letter grade A+. A grade of 1.1 to 1.3 is equal to letter grade A. A grade of 1.4 to 1.7 is equal to letter grade A-. A grade of 1.7 to 1.9 is equal to letter grade B+. A grade of 2.0 to 2.2 is equal to letter grade B. A grade of 2.3 to 2.5 is equal to letter grade B-. A grade of 2.6-2.8 is equal to letter grade C+. A grade of 2.9 to 3.0 is equal to letter grade C. A grade of 5.0 is equal to C-.

A passing grade is a grade within 1.0 and 3.0. A grade of 5.0 means failure.

Unsatisfactory performance or unexcused absences of more than 20% of the prescribed number of class hours or laboratory periods during the term merits a 5.0 or failure as well.

INC means incomplete, a grade which indicates that the student has an initial passing grade but has not complied with all the academic requirements or failed to take the final examination for the course due to sickness, emergency cases, or accident. It can also mean a failure to submit a major course requirement. It must be completed within the reasonable period set by the faculty member but not to exceed six (6) months following the semester or summer in which the course was taken; otherwise, the grade automatically becomes “NC” (No Credit).

NC means no credit, a Final grade which does not earn credit nor indicate failure given in those cases where the student did not take the final examination in the course and did not inform the teacher of the reason for failing to take the final examination before the deadline for submission of grades in ISMIS, and his/her performance was not satisfactory to meit a passing grade. Such a grade is permanent and cannot be changed subsequently.

W means withdrawal of enrollment from course/s with official notice.

IP means in Progress, a grade given to students who are still working on their thesis for a maximum of one (1) year. It cannot be used for courses other than thesis. Once they complete their thesis, students will earn a numerical grade.

Computation of Grade Point Average (GPA). The GPA is computed in all curricula by multiplying the number of units assigned to a course by the f inal grade earned and then by dividing the summation of the products by the total number of units enrolled for the term. Grades of 5.0 and NC of credit courses are, however, included in the GPA calculation. Grade in NSTP is excluded from the computation. Practicum/Internship/OJT will be included in the computation of the GPA provided that the department considers it as an academic course and that the department has obtained prior approval from the VPAA.

Dean’s Honors List. The University recognizes superior scholastic achievement through the Dean’s Honors List per semester of each School/ Department. The qualifications for Dean’s Honors List are as follows:
- A regular load for the semester according to the curriculum enrolled.
- A Grade Point Average (GPA) of at least 1.70.
- Of good moral character and has not been found guilty of any offenses.
Students in the Dean’s Honors List qualify for the Carolinian Honors List, with Scientia representing 70% of the computation. These are the students with a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 1.0 to 1.7.

Carolinian’s Honors List. In view of the Mission and Vision of the University of San Carlos, whichaims to develop competent and socially responsible professionals and life-long learners in an environment that fosters excellence in the academic core processes of teaching-learning, research, and community extension service, the Carolinian Honors List (CHL) recognizes the holistic achievements of the student in the University.

The CHL aims to identify students who embody the Carolinian identity, that of being a Witness to the Word. This identity is gauged by the three (3) criteria of Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. The CHL also aims to recognize students in the University who follow the Carolinian path, and possess life skills and values. Scientia refers to academic excellence, where one demonstrates competence and skills in one’s chosen discipline. Virtus is good moral conduct, including active participation in school activities and student organizations. Devotio is involvement in community extension activities outside of the University.

Thus, students are encouraged to exercise citizenship in the University by participating in and getting involved in mandatory/required activities, and volunteering in community extension activities inside and outside of the campus. These activities are in the Carolinian Lifestyle Guide (CLG) and are subject to periodic changes.

The Carolinian Honors are awarded every semester. Students who obtain a CHL average of at least 1.7 will be included in the Carolinian Honors List. A Certificate of Recognition will be awarded in a formal ceremony to be conducted by the School concerned.

The top three (3) ranks of each Cluster will be given a scholarship in the form of a tuition fee discount. If the first in rank of each cluster is already enjoying a full scholarship either by government/private/University sponsorship, the next in line will be given the CHL scholarship. If the student has an existing University scholarship, the one with the higher privilege will be availed. If the student is enjoying a government or private partial scholarship, the CHL privilege will serve as a supplement to cover the difference in tuition fees.
