Topic 16: Rationale of Discipline and Positive School Climate

The University of San Carlos promotes a positive school climate by making the school safe and accepting of a learning environment. A positive school climate means everyone – students, teachers, staff, parents, and community members – feels safe, welcome, and respected. Making the University safe and accepting involves the whole school and focuses on:
1. collaboratively promoting positive student behavior through a code of ethics and conduct 
2. building healthy and respectful relationships throughout the whole school community 
3. preventing inappropriate behavior through initiatives like counseling and other prevention, formation, and intervention programs. 
4. addressing inappropriate behavior through progressive and positive discipline.

The University of San Carlos is moving towards the use of positive discipline although for a long time, it has used progressive discipline and has continued to do so. Such actions as conversing with student offenders, giving them a written warning, meting out a suspension penalty from classes, and expelling them in extreme cases, are the core of progressive discipline in four steps. On the other hand, positive discipline reinforces the good behavior of students and helps them handle negative behavior in an appropriate and mature manner.

Through progressive and positive discipline, the school acknowledges that whenever students do things beneath their expected duties and responsibilities and/or behave inappropriately, it is its duty to teach, guide, mentor, and support them in the intrapersonal or interpersonal trait that they lack. It makes the students realize what behaviors are acceptable and which are not. It shows them that their choices have consequences. Thus, teaching them discipline needs earning trust, building relations, and supporting the improvement in their behavior.

The school fosters holistic character development and wellness by encouraging the students to do the right thing willfully next time due to personal enlightenment (instinct motivation) and not because of fear of sanctions (extrinsic motivation). In its application of progressive and positive discipline, it increases the students’ self-esteem and self-efficacy, developing the Virtus aspect in its motto. Virtus means being true to one’s self and to God in the practice of one’s profession and as a member of society. It also denotes responding to conscience, building up character and acting in prudence. Mirroring the evangelical attitudes, Virtus requires listening and imbibing the beatitudes of Jesus, when developed in the students, they make as their own the Carolinian identity.

Thus, as students and graduates from their respective schools of discipline, they are expected to possess the following attributes and identity: As Carolinian businessmen and economists, they are lifelong learners who continuously strive to become leading economic researchers, global leaders, entrepreneurs, and ethical professionals pushing for inclusive growth grounded on the context of Cebu, Philippines. They are socially conscious and culturally sensitive, ethical business persons who create wealth with a responsibility to share with the less fortunate and the excluded. As Carolinian designers, they possess values and professional ethics in the fair engagement with clients, colleagues, allied professionals, and the public. They are advocates for social responsibility for a just and sustainable development of the natural and built environment. As Carolinian educators, they are noble professionals who seek to uphold the integrity of the teaching profession as missionary educators witnessing to the Word. They seek to contribute to the development of educational theories and practices through functional and meaningful research. As Carolinian lawyers or political scientists, they pursue the common good under the rule of law by being able to identify and articulate legal issues, engaging in critical analysis, deciding on a reasoned alternative among several options and thinking deeply in dealing with legal issues for the first time, and getting the right responses. As Carolinian professional engineers, they are noble leaders and innovators guided by the Gospel truths as they assist society to find sustainable and appropriate solutions to local and global problems. As Carolinian scientists and artists, they are analytical, critical, open minded and innovative professionals imbued with values anchored on the common good. As advocates of the common good, they become agents of change who provide holistic perspective and integral understanding of realities.