The Code of Conduct for Students is a set of moral standards aiding Carolinians to embody the University’s Catholic identity principles: Education with a Mission and Witness to the Word. USC aims at the holistic formation of the individual that enlightens the mind, hones skills, and positively transforms character and behavior (Society of the Divine Word, 2010). Thus, graduates of USC are professionally competent and skilled (Scientia), are value-driven and noble in character (Virtus), and are dedicated to social transformation (Devotio).

The Code of Conduct aims to develop the sensitivity of students to moral issues in contemporary life, to strengthen their courage and ability to speak out and act on these issues, and thus, to hone their sense of personal identity as Witness to the Word. Thus, each student of the University is expected to act as a mature Christian, to conduct himself/herself with dignity and deportment, and to uphold the moral standards inside and outside of the Catholic University. A code of conduct is intended to promote a wholesome atmosphere conducive to the full development of the human person in the light of Christian philosophy aligned with the USC Vision-Mission.

Academic Conduct. Students share with their teachers and academic heads the responsibility of maintaining a suitable environment that is conducive to their learning as well as classroom management by their teachers. Students perform their part in this shared responsibility by:
1) Faithfully adhering to the rules and regulations given in the Student Manual; 
2) Assuming full accountability and responsibility for their own learning and actively taking part in the learning of other students; 
3) Exerting every effort to relate what they learn in the classroom to the real world outside; 
4) Observing proper academic conduct at all times, specifically abstaining from committing plagiarism, cheating in tests or examinations, falsifying academic documents, and abetting students to do all these immoral acts; 
5) Demonstrating sensitivity to and appreciation of the facilities provided for their learning by the University by refraining from defacing, damaging, or committing wastage and theft of institutional resources.

Student - Student Relationship Conduct. As a major part of the University community, students are responsible for promoting genuine collegiality among their peers through mutual respect as well as by the example of their moral behavior. This collegiality is manifested in the following actions:
1) Respecting the rights of fellow students to learn and affording them courtesy and respect at all times; 
2) Valuing and respecting the diverse qualities and gifts of their peers, especially those of other cultures, religions, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expressions, nationalities, and social classes; 
3) Respecting each other as individuals. Under no circumstance shall they physically or psychologically harm or threaten to harm others by bullying, hazing, stalking, harassing or discriminating students in any form; 
4) Accepting constructive criticism from fellow students.

Student - Teacher Relationship Conduct. The maturity of society’s culture is assessed by the level of respect for and appreciation of its members to those who pass on to each generation the knowledge and wisdom that is its heritage. Students demonstrate this respect in the following manner:
1) Treating their teachers with the respect for the experience, knowledge, and concern they have for their welfare and learning; appropriately asking permission to use communication and information technology equipment in the classroom as a sign of respect to the teacher.
2) Actively participating and engaging in sound interaction and dialogue with their teachers and their peers without fear of intimidation; 
3) Appreciating feedback or constructive criticisms from their teachers as part of the normal process of formative education; 
4) Refraining from giving personal favors or gifts, whether in cash or in kind, in return for any special consideration such as a passing grade, the granting of honors, consideration, or other concessions; 
5) Being truthful in their reasons for not completing academic assignments, attending class, or taking an examination; 
6) Properly elevating their concern to the proper authorities like the department chairperson, dean, Vice Presidents for Academic Affairs, and/ or the President should they feel they are not given a fair and reasonable hearing on an academic matter.

Student - Administrative Relationship Conduct. Administrative employees of the University fulfill unassuming but indispensable functions in rendering support to the programs of school. Students show recognition of this important contribution by:
1) Treating administrative employees with respect and courtesy regardless of their administrative status or position; 
2) Being sensitive to the administrative employees’ schedules and workload in dealing with them; 
3) Properly elevating their concern to the administrative employee’s immediate superior should they feel they are not given a reasonable response on a particular request or dispute.

Student - University Relationship Conduct. The university environment serves and supports the mission of the institution. It must be treated with proper care and respect to ensure the health, safety, and security of members of the community. Thus, students show themselves to be socially responsible by practicing abiding by the rules and regulations:
1) They should wear their Identification Cards on campus and present the same whenever requested by University personnel. The student ID is a vital component of the University’s security system as it identifies the student as a bona fide member of the University. This constitutes a basic act of social responsibility given that campus safety and security are the responsibility of all members of the USC community. Thus, the ID is considered an official document to be treated with care and respect. It is NOT to be defaced, altered, or misused in any way, shape, or form. It is non-transferable, not lent or copied, nor discarded indiscriminately.
2) Students are required to wear the proper school uniform and/ or dress code according to the specifications and standards set by the University. Students are expected to be reasonably neat in appearance and maintain dignity in their manner of dressing, avoiding attire and decorum deemed inappropriate in a school environment. Students who intend to wear a school uniform of their preferred gender orientation must manifest their intent with the Gender and Development Section of OSFA and accomplish the Declaration Form prior to the start of the term.
3) Students are held responsible for the behavior of persons or outsiders who come into the campus on their behalf. Bodyguards or chaperones of students are not allowed inside the campus without the proper identification (ID) card issued by the OSFA and approved by the Office of Security and Safety. Even with their proper identification, bodyguards or chaperones (including drivers) are not allowed to loiter on campus. It is the student who is charged with an offense when such persons violate the Code of Conduct.
4) It is the responsibility of students to take care of school property and to help keep the university clean. Students who use or access the property of the school or of others without proper authorization shall be subjected to disciplinary measures. In case of damage to property, the student/s concerned must bear the cost of repair or replacement.
5) Students who bring vehicles into the campus should observe all campus traffic and parking regulations. This includes displaying the sticker and ensuring that their vehicles do not contribute to environmental and noise pollution.
6) Smoking is prohibited in the University premises.
7) All students share responsibility for the creation and maintenance of a healthy, safe, and drug-free campus. This includes compliance with policies and measures against bringing dangerous weapons and the use of dangerous drugs.

The following may apply for uniform exemption at OSFA prior to the start of the term: Persons with Disabilities (PWDs), Students with Special Medical Needs, Different Sexual Orientation as indicated in the declaration of orientation, Cultural Considerations, Working students for gainful employment, Married students, Pregnant Women, Cross-Enrollees, Second Coursers, On-the-Job Training (Internship)

Student and Community Relationship Conduct. In immersing themselves in community-related activities, the students should bear in mind that they represent the institution’s interest and involvement in establishing rapport with and support of community members. For these purposes, the students are expected to:
1) participate in community services and extracurricular activities by making active use of the knowledge and skills they have gained at the university; 
2) support the activities of other sectors, such as civil society, government, and parochial and religious organizations; 
3) behave responsibly in the use of communication and information technology, especially when engaging in any action that may impact the privacy, dignity, and/or rights of institutions, groups or individuals, including themselves.
4) conduct themselves properly and use the name of the University during off-campus activities, especially those that are cultural and educational in nature. Students should bear in mind that any of their off-campus activities should not directly or indirectly tarnish the name of the school, especially the values and principles it stands for. Students officially representing the University or any of its recognized or official sectors or units in activities involving external groups must obtain official approval from a person of authority or from the concerned department or office.
5) refrain from involving the University in their own personal financial dealings; conduct themselves at all times in such a way as not to cast aspersion or bring dishonor and discredit to the University or tarnish its good name and reputation. In this regard, the students should understand that the University has the right and authority to regulate their conduct and activities on or off campus when these conduct and activities affect the good order and welfare of the University or have a direct and immediate effect on the discipline or general welfare of the school. Creating fictitious account that does not carry the real name of the student but can be identified as a Carolinian is prohibited.

Netiquette for Carolinians. While social media platforms are avenue for communication and expression of learning, responsible Carolinians should be mindful of the proper conduct and use of these resources. Learners are expected to observe proper ethical values, be culturally sensitive and conscious of the risks associated with plagiarism, cyberbullying, use of abusive language and other related actions that are against the ethical and moral standards that will have a negative impact on their holistic formation and university reputation.
1) Attend an online activity properly groomed.
2) Be on time. It is highly suggested to come 10 minutes before the time to check if the equipment/gadgets work. 
3) Be respectful. When typing messages, avoid using all caps, exclamation points or enlarging fonts for emphasis. These are all equivalent to shouting. 
4) Be mindful of the grammar and spelling. 
5) Be polite. Address people properly. Do not interrupt when another person is talking. 
6) Be considerate when making remarks. Use appropriate language.
7) Choose a place where there is no distraction. 
8) Once the activity has started, be attentive to the speaker for the entire period and be participative. 
9) Turn on the camera for the whole duration of the activity. If the bandwidth is limited, ask the host to be excused from turning the camera on. 
10) Keep the mic muted unless it is one’s turn to speak.
11) Use the chat box only when necessary.





