Discipline in schools is specifically mandated by the Constitution, which says “that all educational institutions shall teach the rights and duties of citizenship, strengthen ethical and spiritual values, develop moral character and personal discipline.”

The Constitution requires all schools to be responsible in shaping the behavior of young people under their care. The framing of rules governing university-student relations, particularly on student discipline, is vital, not merely to the smooth and efficient operation of the institution, but to its very survival.

USC adapts a progressive and positive discipline policy. Through progressive and positive discipline, it acknowledges that whenever the student does things below his/her expected duties and responsibilities and/or behaves inappropriately, it is the duty of the whole school to discipline the student(s) by teaching, guiding, mentoring, and supporting an intrapersonal/interpersonal skill that a particular student lacks. It also lets them realize what behaviors are acceptable and/or appropriate and what behaviors are not. It is also showing them that their choices have consequences. Thus, teaching discipline needs trust, building relations, supporting students to improve their behavior and, hopefully, preventing inappropriate student behavior from happening again.

Punishment is only one technique of discipline and expulsion is reserved as a measure of last resort. On the other hand, employing alternative programs and practices that support student needs and hold students accountable, yet keep them engaged in the classroom, is highly encouraged because this leads to higher achievement and improved graduation rates.

More importantly, a progressive and positive discipline policy must adhere to the core values of the university. School policies and discipline recommendations must encourage academic learning and not hamper or impede academic engagement (Scientia); promote holistic character development and wellness by encouraging the student to do the right thing next time willfully due to personal enlightenment (intrinsic motivation) and not because of fear of sanction (extrinsic motivation) and by increasing then decreasing a student’s self-esteem and self-efficacy (Virtus); and contribute to developing a student’s altruistic and prosocial attitude/behavior, and/ or cultural sensitivity through service orientation (Devotio).

Thus, in using a progressive and positive discipline, the following should be taken into consideration and amidst careful deliberation: 1) The students’ stage of growth and development. 2) The nature, severity, and frequency of the offense/ inappropriate behavior. 3) The history and circumstances surrounding it. 4) The impact of the behavior on the school climate.

Within this context, more serious consequences may be considered for inappropriate behavior that escalates or is repeated. Providing students with the opportunity to reflect on their own actions and the impact of these actions is essential to student learning. A student’s behavior occurs in a broader context and can be changed over time. Thus, each decision on discipline is unique for each student. It will depend on the strengths and challenges of that student.

Therefore, a range of options to determine the most appropriate way to respond to each situation and help the student learn from his or her choices is considered. Depending on the case, the support or consequences will be given by the different persons of authority as follows but not limited to the student development mentors, teachers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or the President.

The discipline recommendations will include different supports and consequences. Supports could include:
1) A discipline conversation with the student by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the Student Development Mentors, Teachers, Guidance Counselors, Campus Priests and Ministers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or President; 
2) A parent - teacher/staff feedback and conferences by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the student development mentors, teachers, guidance counselors, campus priests and ministers, Department Chairs, Dean, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or the President; 
3) A review of expectations for the student’s behavior conducted by either one or more of the following persons but not limited to the Student Development Mentors, Teachers, Guidance Counselors, Campus Priests and Ministers, Department Chairs, Deans, OSFA Officers, Vice Presidents, and/or President. 
4) Formation sessions like counseling, moral and/or spiritual guidance, coaching, anger management, etc.; 
5) Attending prevention and/or intervention programs.

Consequences could include the following, depending on the gravity of the offense:
1) Writing a personal apology to the aggrieved/offended party; 
2) Doing an academic assignment or writing a paper; 
3) Mandatory work in the form of community service; 
4) Suspension, disqualification, or withdrawal of privileges (e.g., uniform exemptions, grant of car sticker, discounts, scholarships, etc.); 
5) Payment of the value of the property destroyed/damaged /lost or its replacement; 
6) Detention or suspension hours/programs with alternative academic requirements; 
7) Disciplinary probation with automatic suspension for the rest of the semester in case of any violation of the conditions imposed; 
8) Exclusion for a semester/s; 
9) Disqualification from receiving honors/awards at graduation; In the event that an awardee is found guilty of an offense or crime after the award has been given, the University shall withdraw the award. 
10) Conditional or non-issuance of certificate of good moral character; 
11) Payment of fines; 
12) Mandatory drug testing at the student’s expense (especially in cases related to dangerous drugs, substance abuse, or endangering behavior); 
13) Mandatory psychological/clinical assessment and compliance with the recommendations of an accredited specialist; 
14) Restriction against participation in school activities/further contact with aggrieved parties; 
15) Outright dismissal; 
16) Expulsion; 
17) Other penalties which may be set forth by the University.
