All teachers, school officials, and other employees and persons in authority are bound to help enforce school policies. 

Minor to less serious offenses are handled by the student development mentors (SDMs). SDM(s) is a (are) faculty member(s) assigned in each department who is (are) in-charged in mentoring their students’ development and discipline. SDMs can only recommend certain support, sanctions, and penalties and needs approval by their respective academic chairperson. 

There are some minor to less serious offenses that will be handled by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members when it involves cases between departments of the same college. SDEVCOM can only recommend certain support, sanctions, and penalties and needs approval by their respective academic dean. 

Serious to very serious offenses are reported to the campus Student Discipline Officer (SDO). After an initial assessment and evaluation, the campus SDO may recommend for the SDMs and/or SDEVCOM to handle the case or endorse it, and then convene the Student Discipline Committee. 

The Student Discipline Committee (SDC) is a body tasked to discuss and deliberate on the discipline recommendation of a case. It is composed of the head of the OSFA, a university lawyer, and a member ofthe student development board. The SDC can only recommend support, sanctions, and penalties. The recommendation will be acted upon by the Director of Student Services and approved by the Vice President concerned. In the conduct of its investigation, SDC will not adopt a trial-type proceeding. Cross-examination may be disallowed at its discretion. 

The Vice President concerned (dependent on whether the case is academic, property and safety, and/or financial in nature) decides and approves the recommendations endorsed by the Director of Student Affairs and Services Office regarding disciplinary matters. The VP’s decision on a student disciplinary case is final and can be executed through the Student Discipline Office.
