A. Minor Offense 
Minor violations do not involve serious injury or harm, lack evidence of malice or premeditation, behaviors can be attributed to development or circumstances, and have little or no serious negative implications for the University or its members. Minor offenses are recorded in a student’s name, but do not prevent him/her from receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Although still recorded, the frequency of offense is refreshed every semester. Repeated minor violations in a semester, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. Minor offenses are given three (3) warnings: 
- First warning constitutes a Discipline Consultative Session (in accordance with our “Sultihi ako, maminaw ako” Program-Consultative Session/s).
- Second warning, the Student is now required to submit an apology letter before his/her school ID is returned. A strong warning is given to the student during the Discipline Consultative Session.
- Third warning serves as the Final Warning. The student is now informed of the consequences of his/her actions with varied sanctions according to the gravity of the offense committed.

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a minor offense. Depending on the frequency and the school of the student(s) involved, minor offenses are handled by the Student Development Mentors (SDMs) and by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members.
First offense - Discipline Conversation (Oral Warning) 
Second Offense - Discipline Conversation (Written Warning is given after which the student is required to make a written reply.) 
Third Offense - Discipline Conversation. See other disciplinary support & consequences. (Written Reply).

B. Less Serious Offense
Less serious offenses are acts that disrupt the order and are a threat to the security and safety of the school. A less serious offense does minimal physical injury and minimal harm to the honor and dignity of others but has no serious negative implication for the University or its members. Less serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name but do not prevent them from receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Although still recorded, the frequency of offense is refreshed every academic year. Repeated less serious offenses in an academic year, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. 

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a less serious offense. Depending on the frequency and the school of the student(s) involved, less serious offenses are handled by the Student Development Mentors (SDMs) and by the Student Development Committee (SDEVCOM) members. First offense 
First offense - Discipline Conversation. Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply. 
Second offense - Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.
Third offense - Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.

C. Serious Offense. 
Serious offenses are acts that do a greater threat or damage to the safety, property, honor, and dignity of another person and the school. Serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name during his/her stay in the University and may prevent him/herfrom receiving a clean Certificate of Good Moral Character. Repeated serious offenses, however, may constitute a basis for the filing of a higher rank offense. 

All teachers, school officials, and other university employees and persons in authority may call the attention of the student who committed a serious offense. Serious offenses are handled by the campus student discipline office (SDO). After an initial assessment and evaluation, the campus SDO may recommend for the SDMs and/or SDEVCOM to handle the case or endorse it, and then convene the Student Discipline Committee.
For all offenses: Discipline Conversation (Written Reply). The chair, the dean, and the Parents/Guardians are informed. The Student Discipline Committee convened. See other disciplinary support & consequences. Written Warning is given to the student and required to submit a written reply.

D. Very Serious Offense.
Very serious offenses are acts that do the greatest threat or damage to the safety, property, honor, and dignity of another person and the school. Very Serious offenses are recorded in a student’s name during his/her stay in the University and may prevent him/her from receiving a Certificate of Good Moral Character.
Step 1: The Chair of the Student Discipline Board (SDB) receives the case documents from the SDMC. 
Step 2: The Chair of the SDB furnishes copies of the case documents within 5 working days upon receipt thereof to all members of the committee for them to review, assess and study. 
Step 3: The SDB Chair convenes the members not more than 5 working days after furnishing copies of the case documents to the members of the SDB. 
Step 4: The SDB evaluates, assesses and reviews the findings of the case. 
Step 5: The SDB makes the final decision/judgement of the case. 
Step 6: The decision of the SDB shall become final and executory after 5 working days after the SDB has been convened. 
Step 7: The Student Discipline Officer facilitates the enforcement of the final decision

The enumeration of the offenses and their corresponding penalties in the table of offenses and penalties does not curtail the right of the University to pursue cases not listed in order to enforce discipline.

Any misconduct committed outside the University premises does not deprive the Student Discipline Office of its jurisdiction for as long as the misconduct involving a student can affect the good name or reputation of the University.

Composition of the Student Discipline Board (SDB) is as follows: Director of Student Services Chair, Student Discipline Officer – Secretariat, Student Discipline Mentor of the Complainant, Student Discipline Mentor of the Respondent, Legal Consultant, if needed.

In cases where the complainant/s is not satisfied with the decision, he/ she may file a written appeal to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The decision of the VPAA is no longer appealable.

The Chair, Dean, and Parents/Guardians are informed. The Student Discipline Committee is convened, after which a written document with all the attachments are kept in the SDO for proper filing with the utmost confidentiality. Any criminal offense will be forwarded to the legal authorities for further handling.
