Topic 21: List of Offenses

The University’s right to act on the condemnable act or omission of a student is not limited to what is listed or mentioned in this list of offenses. Whatever is actionable in a court or quasi-judicial body is also actionable in the administrative tribunal of the University. If there is no written complaint, the Administration, on its initiative, will be the complainant and start the investigative proceedings.

Offenses related to uniform and grooming (Rank: A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Failure to wear the prescribed school uniform or dress code according to the specification and standards set by the University (A) 
2. Untidy appearance and/or inappropriate attire for a school environment (A) 
3. Wearing attire/school uniform according to their gender preference without approval/clearance from the Gender Development Officer at OSFA (B/C) 
4. Coming to school in a civilian attire, when allowed, that does not promote a dignified, decent and formal appearance, and decorum (B/C) 
5. Failure to present a uniform exemption (A/B) 
6. Taking off the school the uniform on campus except during class activities that require decent and formal attire (A/B) 
7. Wearing/moving around the campus in a PE uniform but outside of PE classes (A/B)
8. Coming to school with unkept or untidy haircut/ hairstyle (A/B) 
9. Exposure of body tattoos with offensive and obscene designs (A/B)

Offenses against security, safety, and order (Rank: A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Entering the University campus without a valid school identification card (ID) such as tailgating (A/B) 
2. Non-wearing of school identification card on campus (A) 
3. Use of two or more school ID or gate pass by whatever means or manner (A/B) 
4. Representing, wearing or using any uniform, insignia or other identifying marks of the University or any department or college without authorization for personal gain (B/C) 
5. Unauthorized access of computer files like hacking and other IT-related violations (B/C/D) 
6. Unauthorized collection of money, checks, or any other instrumentality of monetary value and/or embezzlement of funds (B/C/D) 
7. Entering the campus or off-campus sites under the influence of alcohol and prohibited substances (C/D) 
8. Bringing of intoxicated beverage in whatever quantity on campus (C/D) 
9. Engaging in an unrestrained drinking of alcoholic beverages with schoolmates or friends in school uniform outside the campus. (C/D) 
10. Possession of firearm, air gun, or similar gun replicas, sharp-bladed weapons, tear gas, firecrackers, pyrotechnics, explosive or miniature bombs inside the campus (D) 
11. Threatening to use these weapons to harm anybody inside the campus. (C/D)
12. Hazing as defined in RA No. 11053 or the Anti Hazing Law as an initiation rite or practice as prerequisite for admission into membership in a fraternity, sorority or organization by placing the recruit, neophyte or applicant in some embarrassing or humiliating situations such as forcing him/her to do menial, foolish tasks or activities or otherwise subjecting him/her to physical or psychological suffering or injury regardless where the hazing occurs. (D) 
13. Violation of parking regulations (A) 
14. Engaging in endangering behavior, defined as any action that might lead to loss of life or serious injury, whether intentionally or because of recklessness or gross negligence (as with removing fire alarms, tampering with fire extinguishers, sitting on ledges, dropping objects from buildings, refusing to conform to safety protocols, etc.) (A/B/C/D) 
15. Indiscriminate throwing of waste paper, candy wrappers, chewing gums, plastic cups, etc. on campus or spitting on floors or walls (A) 
16. Loitering or making excessive noise in corridors, stairways, or immediate vicinities during classes (A) 
17. Loud and disturbing arguments, shouting, or heckling that are offensive to the sensibilities of the school community, unrestrained laughter or loud talking inside or outside the classroom or in the corridors/ stairways and immediate vicinities that disrupt classes or academic activities. (A/B) 
18. Unauthorized use of cellular phones, iPods, or other communication gadgets inside the classroom while classes, examinations or other academic activities are going on. (A/B/C/D)
19. Bringing in or playing with any gambling paraphernalia and engaging in gambling activities inside the campus. (A/B) 
20. Smoking/vaping inside the campus and its immediate vicinity (B)
21. Deliberate disruption of classes, academic functions, or activities within University premises (A/B/C) 
22. Brawls, riots, hooliganism on or off campus (B/C/D) 
23. Instigating or participating in group activities, gatherings, rallies, and the like that result in stoppage or disruption of classes and/or other academic activities. (C/D) 
24. Causing panic or confusion that leads to the disruption of classes and other academic activities (C/D) 
25. Unauthorized rallies, barricading, picketing, preventing, or threatening any student from entering the school campus or attending classes, and/or school personnel from discharging their duties (C/D) 
26. Initiating or participating in activities contrary to law or public order (D) 
27. Subverting or defying policies and guidelines of any college department, office of the University, and CHED (C/D) 
28. Any act or omission punishable under the rules and regulations of the University or laws of the land even if the act was committed outside the school campus such as but not limited to possession of marijuana or drugs (RA 9165: Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002), smoking marijuana or using drugs, seriously assaulting another person, trespassing a private property and refusing to leave when requested to do so, conviction for contempt of court for disobeying a restraining order, being drunk and disorderly in the streets in violation of an ordinance,  unauthorized use of the name of teacher/s, school official/s as co-author of an article to assure its publication, posting of lewd, defamatory, indecent or libelous remarks or comments on any platform or any medium of expression, commission of violations of existing laws and/or ordinances (C/D)

Offense against persons (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Extortions, unauthorized solicitations, and other similar acts committed against other students, members of the faculty, and other members of the University (C/D) 
2. Oral defamation or slander in any platform or any medium of expression (B/C/D) 
3. Grave threats, intimidation, coercion against any member of the school community: administrators, faculty, non-teaching staff, students or visitors (C/D) 
4. Assault resulting in physical injury or damage to property (C/D) 
5. Sexual harassment (Refer to IRR on the Anti- Sexual Harassment Bill of 1995, and RA 9262) (D) 
6. Disrespecting or discourtesy of any member of the USC Community and its guests resulting in ridicule, embarrassment or humiliation or besmirched reputation, by and through any means and medium, such as but not limited to Facebook, social networking sites, or other sites on the internet or in any other platform (B/C/D) 
7. Acts of lasciviousness or other acts of misconduct of a sexual nature (C/D) 
8. Engaging in a pattern of conduct that vexes or compromises the physical and/or psychological wellbeing of a person, such as acts of harassment, stalking, coercion (B/C/D) 
9. Instigating and/or engaging in activities resulting in injury and/or moral damage to persons (C/D) 
10. Cyberbullying or any other act by word or deed that degrades or debases the dignity of a person (Refer to RA 10175: Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012) (C/D)

Offenses against property (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Unauthorized use of school facilities or equipment (B/C) 
2. Irresponsible use of school properties (B/C) 
3. Vandalism or destruction of properties of the University, or those belonging to any member of the administration, faculty, non-teaching staff, fellow students, or visitors while on campus (B/C) 
4. Tampering official announcements on bulletin boards, posting of notices or posters in non-designated areas or removing thereof without proper authorization (B/C) 
5. Posting and displaying on campus and its immediate vicinity, posters, pictures, banners or streamers with materials that are libelous, obscene, indecent, offensive to the feeling and moral sensitivity of persons, injurious to the good name of individuals or of the university, subversive or seditious. (B/C/D) 
6. Attempt to steal (C) 
7. Stealing (C/D)

Offenses involving dishonesty (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Borrowing or lending of USC ID card, gate pass, library card, official receipt or other relevant and official school documents for whatever purpose or intention; tampering one’s own or another student’s ID card and using it to gain entry to USC premises, whether damage was inflicted on any member of the USC academic community (B/C/D) 
2. Communicating with others during examination without permission from the teacher or proctor (A/B/C) 
3. Submitting another person’s work as one’s own (C/D) 
4. Cheating during any examination, quiz, or long test (including take home examination or written reports, assigned reports, reaction papers, and other similar materials required for submission) or any other academic requirements, including possession of leaked examination materials. (C/D) 
7. Letting somebody else take the examination in his/ her own behalf (in which case both shall be liable hereunder) (C/D)
8. Plagiarism, forgery, falsification, tampering, alteration or misuse of official school records, documents or credentials, or any other acts indicating fraud or misrepresentation (refer to RA 10173: Data Privacy Act of 2012) (C/D) 
9. Authorship, publication or circulation of false information about the University, its officials, members of the faculty, non-teaching personnel, or students (C/D) 
10. Lying, misrepresenting, and other acts of perjury committed during a formal disciplinary proceeding or other investigative proceedings. (C/D)

Offenses against public and religious morals (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Proselytizing, defined as attempting to convert others to one’s faith by attacking or denigrating the practices and beliefs of another, or by offering special inducements (B/C/D) 
2. Disrespect to national symbols (e.g., making a mockery of the national anthem) and any other similar infraction (B/C/D) 
3. Any act or omission punishable under the laws of the land (C/D) 
4. Adultery, concubinage, bigamy, and other immoral relationships which are against the laws of the land and/or teachings of the Catholic Church. (C/D) 
5. Manifesting vulgar or perverted behavior (verbal/ physical/social media) between students whether of the same or opposite sexes (C/D) 
7. Bringing, viewing, displaying or distributing pornographic materials on campus (either acting as a model/subject, agent, sponsor, or technical crew) or sending foul messages to anybody (student, faculty, employee) (C/D) 
8. Desecrating religious images and practices (C/D) 
9. Irreverent conduct in the chapel or during Angelus, Holy Mass, prayer or any other similar religious practice (B/C/D) 
10. Displaying publicly intimacy/affection that tends to offend the sensibilities of the school community (B/C/D)

Offenses against the University (A – Light offense, B – Less serious offense, C – Serious offense, D – Very serious offense)
1. Posting derogatory remarks/unfounded comments that are detrimental to the name and prestige of the University in social media and other platforms (C/D)
2. Unauthorized use of the name of the University for personal and financial gains, scamming, and other means to defraud other entities or individuals (C/D)
3. Alteration/falsification of University documents (C/D)
4. Unauthorized use of University seal for business and other commercial use (C/D)
