A student organization is an organized group of students sharing common interests, objectives, philosophy, and operational activities not contrary to laws, morals and University rules and regulations. Furthermore, a student organization must be non-partisan, non-political in all political exercises (within and outside the university). Such formation of student organizations is regarded by the University as a healthy sign of growing social awareness and concern and as an exercise of students’ freedom of association. This freedom, however, entails the responsibility to respect the freedom of others and to uphold the dignity of the student body as a whole. The University therefore, recognizes the student organizations as among the venues for: 
1) the development of students’ talents, potentials and capabilities; 
2) students’ greater awareness of their rights, duties and responsibilities; 
3) wholesome social and recreational activities;
4) the realization of the university’s mission statement and academic aims.

The student organizations are broadly categorized into two, namely: 
1) Co-curricular – which are school/department-based and whose membership is automatic upon enrollment in a particular course or college. 
2) Extra-curricular - which are initiated and organized by students to accommodate specific interests, concerns or visions, e.g. socio-civic, cultural, religious, athletic, professional service clubs, etc. and whose membership is voluntary.

To complement and enhance the learning process, students are allowed to initiate and organize activities which may be co-curricular or extra-curricular in nature. Schools, departments, and student organizations, in coordination with the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), manage these activities. The activities must be held within the academic calendar, and should not be scheduled a week before and during major examinations and institutional celebrations unless the activities are intrinsically related therewith.

Registration and Supervision: The Student Activities Officer shall have general supervision of all activities of registered student organizations as well as the student body. All student organizations, including the Supreme and School Student Councils, shall register or renew their registration at OSFA at the beginning of the school year, per CMO 9, series of 2013 (Article VIII, Section 21) and CMO 8, series of 2021. They shall accomplish the requirements asstated in the Student Organization Manual. Among others, the said requirements are the Constitution and/or By-laws or its equivalent, Program of Activities Form, Officers’ and Faculty Adviser’s Data Sheet, list of members and endorsements of authorized university officers or mother clubs for affiliated organizations. Upon compliance with the aforementioned requirements, student organizations shall then be entitled to official recognition by the University through OSFA.