Topic 30: Directory of Academic Programs and Departments

The Department of Accountancy offers the following programs: BS Accountancy, BS Management Accounting, MS in Accountancy Major In Management Accounting. The Department of Accountancy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 513, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Wendell K. Ang, JD-ILP, CPA (wkang@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Mary Anne B. Jamisola-Adriano, JD, CPA (majamisola@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Venus M. Branzuela (vmbranzuela@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Anthropology, Sociology and History offers the following programs: BA Anthropology, MA Anthropology, Certificate Course in Cebuano Heritage Studies and Conservation Management, and Certificate Course in Sustainable Community Development. The Department of Anthropology, Sociology and History can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 139, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Leny G. Ocasiones (lgocasiones@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Angela June N. Rosal (dashsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Architecture offers the following programs: BS Architecture, BS Interior Design, Bachelor of Landscape Architecture, Master of Architecture (majors in Interior Architecture, Urban Design, Architectural Science, and Landscape Architecture), and Master in Urban Planning. The Department of Architecture can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 208, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Ar. Adrian I. Yap (aiyap@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. Jessyl Pestaño (archdept@usc.edu.ph), Coordinator for Architecture Graduate Programs: Ar. Robert B. Malayao (rbmalayao@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Biology offers the following programs: BS Biology, BS Marine Biology, BS Environmental Science, MS Biology, MS Marine Biology, MS Environmental Science, and PhD Biology (with tracks Bioscience, Marine Biology, and Environmental Science. The Department of Biology can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 156, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Jonie C. Yee, PhD (biodept@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Virginia P. Bejer (uscbiologydept@gmail.com).

The Department of Business Administration offers the following programs: BS Business Administration (major in Marketing Management, Operations Management, Human Resource Management, Financial Management), BS Entrepreneurship, and BS Executive Resource Management. The Department of Business Administration can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 528, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Angelo O. Burdeos, MBA, MM (aoburdeos@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Ethel D. Catamco, DBA (ehdicdican@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. April Cardoza (basec@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Entrepreneurship is Dr. Roberto H. Visitacion (rhvisitacion@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Chemical Engineering offers the following programs: BS Chemical Engineering. The Department of Chemical Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 255, or through its chair, Camila Flor Y. Lobarbio (chedept@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Chemistry offers the following programs: BS Chemistry, MS Chemistry, PhD. The Department of Chemistry can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 157, or through its chair, Dr. Brian John Sarno (bisarno@usc.edu.ph)

The Department of Civil Engineering offers the following programs: BS Civil Engineering, MS Civil Engineering (major in Structural Engineering, Water Resources and Environment), Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering (major in Structural Engineering and Water Resources and Environment). The Department of Civil Engeering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 260, or through its chair, Ricardo L. Fornis (rlfornis@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature offers the following programs: BA Communication major in Media, BA English Language Studies, BS Literary and Cultural Studies with Creative Writing, MA Applied Linguistics, MA Literature. The Department of Communications, Linguistics, and Literature can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 143, or through the following persons and emails – Chair: Kenneth G. Opina (comlanglitdept@usc.edu.ph), Coordinator: Mary Ann P. Malimas (mapmalimas@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Jenny Rose Ruizo (dcllsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Computer, Information Sciences and Mathematics offers the following programs: BS Computer Science, BS Information Technology, BS Information Systems, BS Applied Mathematics, MS Information Technology, MS Mathematics, PhD Information Technology. The Department of Computer, Information Sciences and Mathematics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 148/149/150/158 or through the following persons and emails - Chair:  Angie M. Ceniza-Canillo, PhD (amceniza@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Jannua Mary Arnado (dcissec@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Information Systems is Mr. Glenn B. Pepito (gbpepito@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Information Technology is Mr. Gran G. Sabandal (ggsabandal@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Computer Science is Mr. Archival Sebial (ajsebial@usc.edu.ph). The program coordinator for Math is Dr. Katrina E. Belleza-Fuentes (kebelleza@usc.edu.ph). 

The Department of Computer Engineering offers the following programs: BS Computer Engineering, MS Computer Engineering (with Tracks Computer Networks, Software Engineering, Digital Hardware System). The Department of Computer Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 263 or through the following persons and emails – Chair: Antoniette Mondigo-Cañete (amcanete@usc.edu.ph), Graduate Program Coordinator: Philip Virgil B. Astillo (pvbastillo@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Economics offers the following programs: BS Economics, MA Economics. The Department of Economics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 550/551, or through its chair, Jan Lorenzo G. Alegado, MS (jlgalegado@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Education offers the following programs: Bachelor of Secondary Education with Specialization in Early Childhood Education – Montessori Education, MA Science Education (major in Physics, Chemistry, Biology), MA Mathematics Education, MA Education (major in Special Education, Montessori Education, Physical Education, English Language Teaching, Religious Education), PhD Science Education (major in Physics, Chemistry, Biology), PhD Education (major in Educational Administration, Research and Evaluation, Curriculum ad Instruction). The Office of the School of Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 212/232, or through the following persons and emails – Dean: Richard R. Jugar, PhD (rrjugar@usc.edu.ph), Dean Secretary: Diane Honoridez (dyhonoridez@usc.edu.ph), Internationalization Coordinator: Rita May P. Tagalog, EdD-ISRM (mptagalog@usc.edu.ph), Graduate Studies Coordinator: Rolando V. Obiedo, PhD (rvjobiedo@usc.edu.ph). The Department of Teacher Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 146, or through the following persons and emails  Chair: Monell John F. Canizares, Ph.D. (mjfcanizares@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Golda Lisi B. Villahermosa (glbvillahermosa@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Bernadette M. Andres (bmandres@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering offers the following programs: BS Electronics Engineering, BS Electrical Engineering, MS Electronics Engineering (major in Microelectronics, Instrumentation and Control, Computers and Communications), MS Electrical Engineering. The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 283, or through its chair, Engr. Joseph Karl G. Salva (jkgsalva@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Fine Arts offers the following programs: Bachelor of Fine Arts (major in Advertising Arts, Cinema, fashion Design, Painting), MA Cinema Studies. The Department of Fine Arts can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 209, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Mary Felma A. Alino, PhD (mfaalino@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Josephine Mejares (kmejares@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of General Education does not offer any program but instead handles General Education courses and Education with a Mission (EDM) courses. The Department of General Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 317, or through the following persons and emails - Director: Grace Magalzo-Bualat, MPS, LLB (gmbualat@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Charin R. Salindo (charinsalindoogem@gmail.com). The coordinator for EDM 1, EDM 2, and Ethics is Fr. Jerome S. Montesclaros, PhD, SVD (jeromesvd@yahoo.com). The coordinator for TCW, PC, LWR, and RPH is Owen O. de la Victoria, LLB, MAPA (oodelavictoria@usc.edu.ph). The coordinator for STS, UTS, MMW, and ART is Val B. Salares, MS (vbsalares@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Hospitality and Tourism offers the following programs: BS Hospitality Management, BS Tourism Management, and Diploma in Culinary Arts. The Department of Hospitality and Tourism can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 555/556, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. Shalymar C. Urbano (scurbano@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Hospitality Management and Diploma in Culinary Arts is Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Tourism Management is Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph).

The College of Law offers the following programs: Juris Doctor (non-thesis), Juris Doctor (with thesis). The College of Law can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 566/567, or through the following persons and emails: Dean: Atty. Jose Glenn C. Capanas (jgccapanas@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Dean: Atty. Daryl Bretch M. Largo, LLM (dbmlargo@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering offers the following programs: BS Mechanical Engineering, MS Mechanical Engineering. The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 154, or through its chair, Michael E. Loretero, PhD (meloretero@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Industrial Engineering offers the following programs: BS Industrial Engineering, MS Industial Engineering. The Department of Industrial Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 224, or through its chair, Dr. Lorafe Lozano (lflozano@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nursing offers the following programs: BS Nursing, MA Nursing. The Department of Nursing can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 134, or through its chair, Maria Lourdeni A. Ruaya, RN, MAN, JD (mlaruaya@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics offers the program BS Nutrition and Dietetics. The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 160, or through its chair: Ms. Lianne M. Cormanes, RND, MPA, MSc (lmcormanes@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Pharmacy offers the program BS Pharmacy, Certificate in Clinical Pharmacy, and MS Pharmacy. The Department of Pharmacy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 321, or through its chair, Gerard Lee L. See, RPh, MSc, PHD (pharmsec@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Philosophy offers the following programs: Bachelor Philosophy, MA Philosophy, PhD Philosophy. The Department of Philosophy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 124, or through the following emails – philoreldept@usc.edu.ph, philosec@usc.edu.ph.

The Department of Physics offers the following programs: BS Applied Physics, MS Physics, and PhD Physics. The Department of Physics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 145, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Renante Violanda, PhD (rrviolanda@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Mary Aileen Baculpo, MS (physicssec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Political Science offers the following programs: BA Political Science (major in International Relations and Foreign Service, Law and Policy Studies), MA Political Science, MA Public Management and Development. The Department of Political Science can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 578, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Rejene T. Lakibul, MPMD (rtlakibul@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Irish L. Managbanag, MS (poscsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Psychology offers the following programs: BS Psychology, MA Psychology (concentration in Social Psychology, Industrial and Organizational Psychology), MA Clinical Psychology, MA Guidance and Counseling. The Department of Psychology can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 131, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Reuel Joab C. Yap, PhD (rcyap@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Katrina Esco (psycssec@usc.edu.ph).