Topic 29: Directory of Student Support Services and Programs

The Athletics Office caters queries and concerns regarding the following: tryouts, privileges, booking of sports facilities, policies regarding sports events, rental rates of sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and tennis court. The Athletic Office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 523, or through the following persons and emails: Fr. Adriano Ocariza (acocariza@usc.edu.ph), Marvin Avergonzado (mnavergonzado@usc.edu.ph), Patrick Philipp Gamaliel Uno (pguno@usc.edu.ph).

The Campus Ministry Office caters queries regarding the following: Liturgical Services (Daily Masses, Sunday Masses, First Friday Mass, Novena Masses, Mass for the Dead), Prayer Intentions (Mass Intentions and Mass Sponsorship), Sacraments (Anointing and Confession), Blessing (House and Office), Spiritual Direction and Counselling, Vocation and Mission Animation, Faith Sharing, Retreat and Recollection Giving, Lector and Altar Servers Training, Basic Bible Seminar, JPIC, and Arnold Janssen Spirituality Workshop. The Campus Ministry Office is located under St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Chapel in Talamban Campus, and 3rd Floor Dingman Building in Downtown Campus. The Campus Ministry Office can be contacted through the following: Office of the University Chaplain (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 251, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Talamban Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 135, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 540/541, Email: chaplaindc@usc.edu.ph)

The Community Extension Services (CES) Office caters queries regarding the following: CES activities, CES events, CES programs, CES projects, CES forms, CES application. The Community Extension Services (CES) Office offers the following transformative programs: Mission Exposure Program, Research and Development Program, and CES Carolinian Volunteers program. The Community Extension Services (CES) office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 549, or through its head, Bonifacio N. Mercado Jr. (bnmercado@usc.edu.ph, ces@usc.edu.ph). The Community Extension Services (CES) office is located at the 2nd floor of USC Mission Center, Fr. Ludwig Lehmeier Building, Downtown Campus.

The Mission Exposure Program helps the students to understand the importance of context in pursuing development, demonstrate devotion to work for the poor and those in the margins, define the contexts of varied communities where mission exposure is done, and describe the challenges confronting the members of the community.

The Research and Development Program helps the students to understand the RDEPO framework and intended outcomes of the university, understand the ethical practices in research, and conduct studies the results of which may serve as bases for developing extension programs and projects.

The CES Carolinian Volunteers helps the students to show the talents and skills he/she can share in serving as Carolinian volunteer, share one’s leadership skills in collaboration with other volunteers, perform the essential skills to work with and in teams, and undergo actual volunteering work.

The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) caters queries regarding the following: Online interview for new students, Counseling appointment, Psycho-educational activities, Shiftee interview, Exit interviews, Complete withdrawal interview, referral, Psychological testing, Consultations, and Appraisal. The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) also offers the following programs: Mental health Program, Career Development Program, and Peer facilitator Program. 

The main office of the Counseling and Development Center (CDC) is located at the Main Hallway, Ground Floor, Fr. Arthur Dingman Building immediately next to the Information Office, Downtown Campus (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 554). The Satellite CDC Offices for Talamban Campus are as follows: Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for School of Engineering (Ms. Lilybeth Requilme - lprequilme@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Santos Camomot - sgcamomot@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Gilbert Abejar - gpabejar@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 105), Second Floor Philip van Engelen (SAS) Building for the School of Arts and Sciences (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 142), Second Floor Robert Hoeppner (Nursing) Building for School of Healthcare Professions (Ms. Teresa Alquezola - tsalquezola@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 134), Right side of the Lobby Area in School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (SAFAD) Building for School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (Ms. Cheryl M. Lao - cmlao@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 215).

The Dormitory caters queries regarding the following: Dorm room availment, Room accommodation and rates, Dorm reservation fee, Payment for dorm changes, Unblocking of dorm residents, and Residents status in the dorm. The Dormitory is located in Talamban Campus and can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 271, or its head, Teresita R. Libod-libod (trlibodlibod@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section caters queries regarding the following: Online payments, verification of payment channels, verification of online payments and transactions, wire transfer details, payments for testing fees, good moral character, and payments outside tuition fees. The Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 173/616, or through email (offsitecol@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section caters queries regarding the following: Tuition fees, privileges and discounts, family and sibling discounts, full payment discounts, same family privilege, credit memos provided by the Scholarship Office for tuition fee subsidy, Accounting Clearance, Assessment Queries, Student refund on admissions withdrawal, and Promissory Note Assistance. The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section is located in the 2nd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building, Talamban Campus; and Ground Floor Arthur Dingman Building, Downtown Campus. The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 162/552 and email (assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph).

The Health Services Office caters queries regarding the following: Request for online and onsite health consultation and referral, Request for Medical Certificate for School Related Activities and Concerns, Physical and dental examination for freshmen and transferees, First Aid for emergency cases, Starter doses for common illnesses (over-the-counter medications), and Request for Letter of Authorization (LOA) for students who sustained accident injuries. The Health Services Office also offers the Healthy Student Lifestyle program which provides different health educational activities that engage students in healthy lifestyle practices which promote health and prevent illnesses. The Health Services Office is located in the Clinic besides the Business Administration Department, Downtown Campus, and Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for Talamban Campus. The Health Services Office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 103/546, or through email (healthservices@usc.edu.ph). The contact persons for Health Services Office are Elena Plazl Pasuelo and Rennel Joseph Toremotcha for Downtown Campus, and Sheila Fatima Fernandez and Romela Arias for Talamban Campus.

The Internal Audit Office caters queries regarding the charges for petition and tutorial classes of the undergraduate students. The Internal Audit Office is located at the Ground Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. The Internal Audit Office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 280/281, or through email (internalaudit@usc.edu.ph).

The Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) caters queries regarding the following: ISMIS, IT Helpdesk, Email, RFID, Canvas, USC Emails, and USC Google Accounts. The IRMO is located at the Basement Floor of Arthur Dingman Building in Downtown Campus and 3rd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. The IRMO can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 107/506 and email (irmoacs@usc.edu.ph).

The USC Library caters queries regarding the following: Unreturned books, Unsettled library fines, Borrowing of books, Status of books, and Access to Online Resources and Services. The USC Library is located in the Josef Baumgartner Learning Resource Center (JB-LRC) of Talamban Campus. The USC Library can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 198 or through the following persons and emails: Sharleen G. Ramos (sgramos@usc.edu.ph), Divina Tenorio (dctenorio@usc.edu.ph), Janice Berdin (jfberdin@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement caters queries regarding the following: Scholarships, USC Student Financial Assistance Program and Sponsors, Scholarship Application Form, Procedure and Requirements, Scholarship Confirmation, Release of Allowances for Scholars, Status of Previlege, Balance, Delay of Payment, Letter-Explanation for Deficiency in Grades, Employment Opportunities, Internship Opportunities, Partner Companies, Alumni matters, and Alumni ID for Fresh Graduates. The contact information of the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships, and Job Placement are the following: For Scholarships, Christine Y. Alpis (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 276/406, Email: scholarship@usc.edu.ph), For Alumni Affairs, Ferdinand S. Boncayao (Email: fsboncayao@usc.edu.ph and alumni@usc.edu.ph), For Job Placement, Fe C. Salva (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 547, Email: fcsalva@usc.edu.ph and jobplacement@usc.edu.ph).

The External Relations and Internationalization office (ERIO) caters queries regarding the following: International Students, International Student Transferees, Filipino graduates from Abroad, and Dual citizenship students graduating in the Philippines and abroad. The External Relations and Internationalization Office is located in the 2nd Floor of the Law Building besides the Political Science Department Office, Downtown Campus. The External Relations and Internationalization Office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 1552 or through the following persons and emails - Director: Ms. Brenette Abrenica (ext_relations@usc.edu.ph), International Students Liaison officer: Ms. Alma A. Trinidad (aatrinidad@usc.edu.ph).

The National Service Training Program (NSTP) office caters queries regarding the following: Request for Serial Number, Emergency Response Trainings, University Earthquake Drill and Fire Drill, Safety Preparedness programs, Information Services for Disaster Risk Reduction Management Program. The National Service Training program (NSTP) office is located near the St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Church in Talamban Campus. The National Service Training Program (NSTP) Office can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 159 or through the officer in charge, ms. Emma E. Sema (eeselma@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Recruitment and Admission caters queries regarding the following: Admissions, Admission Requirements, Validation of Admission Requirements, Program Offerings, College Application, College Admission Examinations, Updating of Online Personal Data Sheet. The Office of Recruitment and Admissions is located in the main lobby of Downtown Campus. The Office of Recruitment and Admissions can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 521 or through email of the admissions officer: admissionsoff@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of the Registrar caters queries regarding the following: Unblocking Clearance, Clearance for Returnees, Transfer Credentials, Transcript of Records, Advising in Petition and Tutorial Classes, Overload Courses, Simultaneous Enrollment of courses, Tagging to new program for shiftees, Updating of ISMIS account for returnees, and Accreditation of courses. The Office of the Registrar is located 100 meters straight ahead of the Gate 3 entrance in Talamban Campus.

All concerns to the registrar should be addressed through email. For queries and concerns regarding accreditation of courses, email bdano@usc.edu.ph for School of Healthcare Professions (SHCP), School of Law and Governance (SLG), and School of Arts and Sciences (SAS), kmmracuya@usc.edu.ph for School of Architecture, Fine Arts, and Design (SAFAD), School of Engineering (SOE), and School of Education (SED), for School of Business and Economics, cdgomez@usc.edu.ph for Department of Accountancy and Department of Hospitality and Tourism, and lldeligero@usc.edu.ph for Department of Business Administration and Department of Economics. For queries and concerns regarding unlocking clearance, email rfmeneses@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding clearance for returnees, email registrar@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding transfer credential and transcript of records, email recordssection@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding advising in petition and tutorial courses, overload, simultaneous enrollement of courses, tagging to new program for shiftees, updating of ISMIS account for returnees, email njttiu@usc.edu.ph. For other concerns directed towards the Office of the Registrar, email registrar@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of Security and Safety caters queries regarding the following: Motor vehicle pass stickers (MVPS), Campus Entry Request, Classroom and facility utilization monitoring, Lost and Found Items, Incident reports, Security CCTV Footages monitoring, Information Services and assistance (office location and schedule of offices). The Office of Security and Safety is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus, and Ground Floor of Arthur Dingman Building (Besides the Office of Recruitment and Admissions) in Downtown Campus. The Office of Security and Safety can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 169/584 or through the following contact persons and emails - Talamban Campus: Mr. Romeo Suganob and Mr. Dominador Bautista (securitytc@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus: Mr. Elmer Carungay (securitydc@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) caters queries regarding the following: Student Discipline Formation Programs, Request for Certificate of Good Moral Character, Confiscated School IDs, School ID Replacement, Transferee and Returnee Students Interview and Clearance, School Uniform Concerns, Uniform Exemption Application, Gender and Development Programs, Student Organizations, Student Councils, Carolinian Leadership Program, Carolinian Gender Equity Program, Agak-Amuma Program, Posters for Posting, Approval of Activities for Student Organizations, Registration of Student Organizations. The Office of Student Formation and Activities is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building (across the Clinic) in Talamban Campus, Main Lobby (facing Accountancy Department) in Downtown Campus. The Office of Student Formation and Activities can be contacted via landline (032) 2300100 local 102/592, or through the following persons and emails – Student Discipline Officer – Mr. Lolito Belonguel (lsbelonguel@usc.edu.ph), Student Activities Officer – Ms. Lizaneth Bustillo (lsbustillo@usc.edu.ph), Gender and Development Officer – Ms. Jasmin Owacan (jeowacan@usc.edu.ph), Head of OSFA – Ms. Catherine Algoso (csalgoso@usc.edu.ph). 

The Office of the Performing Arts Group caters concerns regarding Application for Membership, Trainings, and Schooling Privilege for Performing Arts. The Office of the Performing Arts Group is located in the Gym of Downtown Campus and can be contacted through the Coordinator: Golda Lisi B. Villahermosa (Email: glbvillahermosa@usc.edu.ph). The Choristers Music Director is Roberto G. del Rosario (Email: rgdelrosario@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 524). The Dance Troupe Choreographer is Jose Miguel T. Cabasagan (Email: jmtcabasagan@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 572). The Theatre Guild Director is Mary Ann B. Lumacang (Email: mablumacang@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 593).

The Semper Fidelis, which means “Always Faithful”, is the is the official graduate yearbook of the University of San Carlos. The annual publication is a testament of the hard-work and determination of Carolinians for successfully hurdling their academic journeys and of their readiness to conquer the professional world ahead of them. The official email of the Semper Fidelis Committee is semperfidelis@usc.edu.ph. 
