The following are the process in the generation of the Carolinian Honors List including the crediting to the accounts of the honor-students concerned.
1) The Office of the School Dean’s will submit a list of students who basically qualify for the Carolinian Honors List to the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (OVPAA). These are the students who have a Grade Point Average of 1.0 to 1.7.
2) The list will then be forwarded by the OVPAA to the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) to screen for infractions.
3) The list, duly reviewed by OSFA, will be forwarded to the assigned members of the CHL Committee who will factor in the points for Virtus and Devotio. The points for Virtus and Devotio are based on the student’s involvement, and voluntary participation in activities inside and outside the university as categorized in the Carolinian Lifestyle Guide (CLG). Overall coordination is handled by the Presidential Assistant for Mission and Spirituality (PAMS) while the planning and implementation of the CLG activities are handled by the respective units. The data of the student’s participation will be provided by the different units who offered the programs and conducted the activities. This must be submitted not more than ten (10) days after the activity. The data from these units will be forwarded to the CHL Committee for computation. A student who was not able to participate in any Virtus or Devotio activity automatically be given a score of 0. However, a student may be given a maximum score of seventy-five (75) for an excused absence provided that necessary documents will be submitted (i.e. medical certificate). If any Virtus or Devotio activity is not implemented, a student is given a bonus score of 100.
4) When all points are factored in, the result will be checked, verified, assessed and approved by the CHL Committee before the list is submitted to the OVPAA.
5) Once the Carolinian Honors List is done, it will be posted on the bulletin board and student learning platforms for a week for students to review and react before finalization and recognition. The student can request for a clarification of the computation through the OVPAA.
6) The OVPAA will then release the final Carolinian Honors List.
7) The Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement (OAASJP) will be provided a copy for the processing of the corresponding discount-privileges of the honor students concerned.
8) The OAASJP will prepare the Credit Memo to be forwarded to the Finance Division for review.
9) After the endorsement by the Vice President for Finance, the Credit Memo will be submitted to the Office of the President for approval.
10) Once approved by the University President, the Assessment Office will be given a copy of the Credit Memo for crediting to the accounts of the honor-students concerned.

