The enrollment dates for every term (regular semester and summer) can be found in the academic calendar. Commonly, enrollment begins with a block enrollment period for all year students. After a few days, the mode of enrollment shifts to non-block enrollment, first for third to fifth year students, then for first and second year students. The next period is open market, which reservation of courses to specific departments will already be lifted. Here, the student can now see other schedules which may suit him/her better. The final period is adjustment period which the enrollment module will no longer be accessible by the student but instead by the department. Here, there might be changes in your class schedules, rooms, and instructors based on the status of the course. Undersized classes might be dissolved and you have to contact your department for resolutions. Hence, students are advised to monitor their enrollment status during the adjustment period to see for any sudden changes done by the department.

Block sectioning allows a student to enroll all the courses for the term at once. Eligibility: You are eligible for block sectioning if you are enrolling for a regular full load in a given semester. You must not have incurred any failures or NG from the previous semesters. Note that the only way students are eligible for block enrollment is that they obtained passing grades for all courses that are pre-requisite to the set of courses on a given semester. Should this be not met, they have to opt for non-block enrollment instead and enroll only the courses they are eligible in. You are allowed to not fully consume all the units allotted for you in a given semester based on your year level standing.

Non-block sectioning requires the student to advise and enroll a course one at a time. This is available to all students regardless of their course statuses and only after the block enrollment period has ended. During non-block enrollment, the course schedules which the students can view during this period are only those which are reserved to their home department.