TOpic 46: Course Withdrawal

Withdrawal of courses is allowed even after the close of the enrollment period. Withdrawal of courses is not allowed either after the mid-term examinations or after the student has incurred unexcused absences. A student can only withdraw from his/her enrolled courses during the current semester. That means, he or she cannot withdraw any courses from previous semesters. Requests for withdrawal can be partial or complete. The latter would require additional steps for clearance and an interview with the Counseling and Development Center for a better understanding of the situation the student may be in.

Partial Withdrawal is the type of request to be filed if the student intends to withdraw certain courses only. To apply for partial withdrawal, go to "Student Task", then click "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Partial Course Withdrawal". Specify the courses which you would like to withdraw and indicate the reason for the withdrawal, then click "Submit". You may monitor the status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, and registrar for approval. Once approved, the registrar staff will mark such courses with "W" for withdraw.

Complete Withdrawal is the type of request to be filed if the student intends to withdraw all of his or her courses in the current semester. To apply for complete withdrawal, go to "Student Task", then click "Enrollment Related", and "Apply Complete Course Withdrawal". Indicate the reason for the withdrawal and click "Submit". You may monitor the status at "Application History" which includes chair for endorsement, dean for endorsement, counseling and development center for exit interview and endorsement, library for accountability check, and accounting for accountability check, and registrar for approval. Once approved, the registrar staff will mark all the courses with "W" for withdraw.

As a general guideline, the financial implication of either partial and complete withdrawal are the following: 10% of tuition fees if request is filed within the 1st week of classes, 20% of tuition fees if request is filed within the 2nd week of classes, and 100% of tuition fees if request is filed beyond the 2nd week of classes.