Topic 51: Admission Steps for Juris Doctor

The initial requirements for Juris Doctor applicants are as follows, which should be prepared before applying for admission online:
1. Transcript of Records (TOR) with remarks of graduation 
2. Certificate of Transfer Credentials/Honorable Dismissal (for Non-USC graduates) 
3. Certificate of Good Moral Character (for Non-USC graduates) 
4. Personal Statement in not more than 1,000 words that will enable the Dean’s Office to get to know the applicant and assess his or her readiness to enroll in the law program. The Personal Statement template can be downloaded using the link https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Apply/DownloadPersonnalStatementTemplate and shall be submitted in Microsoft Word format and shall indicate the applicant’s desired law program with or without thesis. It shall likewise be accompanied with a Statement of Originality and Sole Authorship (not to be included in the word count). The Statement of Originality and Sole Authorship is the applicant’s solemn attestation to the Dean’s Office that the Personal Statement is his or her own work and may be added after the Personal Statement. 
5. Optional Submission: In addition to the Personal Statement, the applicant may submit any of the following to enable the Dean to get to know the applicant more: academic essay of not more than 1,000 words on how he or she responded to the Covid-19 pandemic, or, a 90-second video on any topic the applicant may wish to expound on. 

Applicants who are USC graduates but have transferred to another higher education institution prior to applying for the JD program are considered transferees and must submit requirements 2 and 3.

Below are the steps for applying as a juris doctor online in the ISMIS portal:
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Submit Admission Application tab" at the bottom of the page, or "Submit Admission Application for 2nd Courser and Continuing Students" for previous USC students and those who were already issued a Student ID in the past, or "International Applicants" tab for International Passport Holders, Dual Citizens, or Filipino Graduates Abroad.
3. Fill out the Personal Data Sheet and complete all fields.
4. Attach the required documents one by one. For every file, click the "Start Upload" button to upload the file.
5. Complete the Captcha. 
6. Click the Submit button.

Below are the steps to check the application status and how to upload additional documents in ISMIS.
1. Go to https://ismis.usc.edu.ph and click "Applicants for Admission Graduate, Tertiary & Senior High School".
2. Click the "Check Status of Submitted Application" button at the bottom of the page. Complete the required fields and click the Search Applicant button.
3. To add more documents, click on the "Files Uploaded" button or icon.