Topic 53: College Entrance Examination

The College Admission Examination (CAE) fee is P600.00 for BS Architecture, BS Landscape Architecture and BS Interior Design, and P500.00 for the rest of the tertiary programs. Below are the guidelines on how to pay the College Admission Examination (CAE) Fees online, which can be done in two ways, PayMaya and DragonPay.

For PayMaya, payments made using this channel are posted real-time. Refer to the steps below to pay using PayMaya.
1. Go to the payment module of ISMIS by accessing this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Paymaya/firstindex 
2. Click PayMaya 
3. Provide the needed applicant information. Name should be consistent with ISMIS including the space in between the First Name.
4. Choose the Payment Item - under Testing Fees, kindly type the amount depending on the program applied.
5. Proceed to check out. Choose the Payment Channel. It will route the applicant to the PayMaya Website.
6. Type in your payment details and submit. After submitting, it will generate an e-receipt. 

For Dragonpay, depending on the payment channel, normally it will take 2 to 3 banking days before the payment will be posted. Refer to the steps below to pay with DragonPay.
1. Go to the payment module of ISMIS by accessing this link: https://ismis.usc.edu.ph/Paymaya/firstindex 
2. Click Dragonpay 
3. Provide the needed applicant information. Name should be consistent with ISMIS including the space in between the First Name. 
4. Choose the Payment Item - under Testing Fees, kindly type the amount depending on the program applied. 
5. Proceed to check out. It will route the applicant to the Dragonpay Website 
6. Choose the payment channel and click notify thru email. 
7. Follow the Reference Code and the payment instructions sent to your email. For online transactions, click the link provided and you will be redirected to your chosen online payment link. For over the counter transactions such as Cebuano Lhuillier, the Biller will be Dragonpay and not University of San Carlos, and the Reference Number will be the Reference Code.

For concerns regarding the process or status of offsite payments offsitecol@usc.edu.ph.

For those who will pay in-campus via the USC Teller, kindly show the ISMIS notification on how to pay the College Admission Examinations and pay the testing fee 

After payment, kindly proceed to the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions (ORA) at the Downtown Campus and show the receipt or email the receipt to admissions-apply@usc.edu.ph so that applicant can choose a schedule of their College Admission Examination. 
admissions-apply@usc.edu.ph so that the applicant will receive a google form link where the
 For concerns on the above requirements, guidelines and process, please email offsitecol@usc.edu.ph or call (032) 401-2300 local 173 or (032) 2300-100 local 173 or call or text the Treasury
 Office at +639088866790.

Below are the guidelines on scheduling and taking the College Admission Examination which is only done in campus.
1. Once admission requirements are verified, the applicant will receive an email instruction from ISMIS on how to pay the testing fee online via payment centers or offline at the USC Teller.
2. Once payment is received (usually after 2 to 3 banking days for online payment) the applicant will receive a Google Form link to schedule the College Admission Examination. 
3. Once the applicant has chosen the date for the College Admission Examination, an Examination Permit will be generated.
4. The applicant must present a printed copy of the examination permit on the day of their scheduled examination and this will serve as their entry pass to the Testing Center, USC Downtown Campus. Examination results will be available 2 days from the examination date. 
5. Once results are available, the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions will now endorse the applicant to the Department Chair for review and acceptance. 

Once the exam results are accepted by the Department Chair, then the enrollment process will commence at this stage. If advise to take another program, the applicant will be redirected to the Testing Center, USC Downtown Campus if there is any additional test to be taken and then to the Office of the Recruitment and Admissions for re-endorsement of the application to the Department Chair.