The UNIVERSITY OF SAN CARLOS (USC) is a non-stock, non-profit Catholic educational institution. It is governed by a ten-member Board of Trustees which is vested with the corporate powers by law. The Board elects the President, who as the chief executive officer, appoints the Vice Presidents, Chaplain, Deans, Registrar, Principals, and other officers. 

In the exercise of his duties and powers, the President is assisted by three vice presidents: the Vice President for Academic Affairs, the Vice President for Administration, the Vice President for Finance. The President is also assisted by Assistant Vice Presidents, when needed. They constitute the President’s Cabinet. 

Attached to the Office of the President is the Cabinet and the following offices: the University Chaplain, the Legal Counsel, the Institutional Planning and Quality Assurance (IPQA), the Knowledge, Technology and Transfer Office (KTTO), the Corporate Communications Office, the Office of the Presidential Assistant for Mission and Spirituality (PAMS), and Internal Audit Office. 

The Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (OVPAA), headed by the Vice President for Academic Affairs, exercises jurisdiction over the University Academic Council and its Committees, Deans and Chairs, Office of the University Registrar, Research, Development, Extension and Publications Office (RDEPO), External Relations and Internationalization Office (ERIO), Community Extension Services (CES), Library System, National Service Training Program (NSTP), and USC Publishing House. The OVPAA closely coordinates with the Human Resources Management Office for concerns regarding academic ranking, classification, and promotions, and the Instructional Development Unit for faculty in-service programs.

The Vice President for Administration (VPAd) is the chief administrative officer of the University. The VPAd exercises jurisdiction over the Advancement Office, Information Resources Management Office (IRMO), Student Affairs and Services Office (SASO), Office of Administrator of Properties (OAP), Data Privacy Office (DPO), Office of Security and Safety, and Human Resource Management Office (HRMO). 

The Advancement Office is composed of the Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarship and Job Placement Office (OAASJ), Office of Naming Rights, Endowments and Scholarships (ONES), and Semper Fidelis. IRMO is composed of Administrative Computing Services and Technical Networking Services and Help Desk Offices. 

The Student Affairs and Services Office is composed of the following: Counselling and Development Center (CDC), Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), Health Services Office (HSO), Performing Arts Group (PAG), Dormitory; and Athletics and Recreation Center (ARC). 

The Office of Administrators and Properties is composed of Physical Plant and Facilities Office (PPFO), Facilities Office, Maintenance Office, and Utilities Office. 

The Vice President for Finance (VPF) is the chief financial officer of the University. He exercises jurisdiction over the Comptroller, Treasurer, and Head of the Budget and Purchasing Department. The Comptroller supervises the Accounting and Payroll Offices, while the Treasurer supervises the cash and fund officers.
