Topic 9: Enrollment Mechanics

Every applicant student must enroll during the prescribed registration period. Detailed instructions on online enrollment procedures are in ISMIS and the official USC website. Enrollment by proxy is not allowed. Enrollment is done in the ISMIS portal. The link for the ISMIS portal is https://ismis.usc.edu.ph.

Integrated School Management Information System (ISMIS) refers to the portal for USC students, faculty, and staff. It is a repository of pertinent school information. Officially enrolled students can view grades, class schedules, application for student requests (withdrawal, program shift, overload, etc.), assessment and enrollment.

When a student registers in USC, it is understood that he/she is enrolling for the entire term.

A student is officially enrolled after he/she has submitted the required documentation requirements at the Office of the University Registrar, has made an initial payment of school fees, and has been issued or has downloaded a validated Study Load that authorizes him/her to attend classes. Upon receipt of the required documents, a clearance form for the USC ID card will be given. 

A student must be officially enrolled in a course to participate in class activities, take quizzes and major exams, and to receive a grade at the end of the semester. His/her name must be reflected on the class list. 

Course refers to a subject offered in a tertiary institution. It is identified by the course title, course code, and course description. Class List is a list of students officially enrolled in a particular course and schedule.

During the enrollment period, a student may change a program upon the endorsement of the Department Chair and School Dean and approval by the Registrar. Changes are not permitted after the close of the enrollment period. 

In general, Cross-enrollment is discouraged. However, for valid reasons, as determined by the Department Chair and the approval of the School Dean, cross-enrollment in another institution may be permitted to graduating students (with a Deficiency Form) of not more than six (6) units during the semester and three (3) units during the summer term, inclusive of the total units enrolled in that particular term. Furthermore, cross-enrollment is not allowed if it is the only remaining course so as not to prejudice the student’s residency in the University. The last course must be taken at the University.

A permit to study in another school with accredited programs may be granted upon the recommendation of the Department Chair and the approval of the School Dean but only for general education courses. Major, professional, or technical courses required for the degree program pursued have to be taken at the University. 

Withdrawal of courses is allowed even after the close of the enrollment period with the endorsement of the Department Chair and School Dean. The Application for withdrawal of course(s) is online in ISMIS under Student Task. Withdrawal of course(s) is not allowed after mid term examinations or after the incurrence of unexcused absences (20% of the total number of required school days). Corresponding charges for withdrawal are stipulated in Section 3.6. 

Transfer of students and transfer credentials. A student who intends to transfer to another school should apply for a Certificate of Transfer Credentials (CTC) online in ISMIS. Such a certificate with the informative copy of the Transcript of Records and other documents will be issued only after the applicant has been cleared of all financial and property liabilities.