What is the name of the Catholic educational institution discussed in the text?
Answer: University of San Carlos (USC)
Who has administered the University of San Carlos since 1935?
Answer: Society of the Divine Word (SVD) missionaries
When did USC become a University?
Answer: 1948
What educational levels does USC offer?
Answer: From kindergarten, including a Montessori academy, to graduate school
How many campuses does USC currently have?
Answer: Five campuses
When did USC expand to what is now known as North Campus?
Answer: 1956
What was the former name of South Campus?
Answer: Girls’ High School
What accreditation levels have USC programs received from FAAP?
Answer: Level II or Level III accreditation
How many engineering programs at USC are accredited by PTC-ACBET?
Answer: Seven engineering programs
What is the rank of USC in the QS University Rankings for Asia 2021?
Answer: Between 451 to 500
How many universities in the Philippines were included in the world ranking by QS in 2023?
Answer: Five universities
How much external grants did USC receive between AY 2018-2021?
Answer: PHP298M (~USD5.68M)
What are the names of the three scholarly journals published by USC?
Answer: The Philippine Scientist, the Philippine Quarterly of Culture and Society, and Devotio: Journal of Business and Economic Studies
How many patents have been filed by USC since 2012?
Answer: Nineteen patents
What is the name of the start-up company established by USC?
Answer: Green Enviro Management Systems (GEMS), Inc.
What support services are available for international students at USC?
Answer: An international students’ office
What facilities are available for student support at USC?
Answer: Dormitories, numerous cafes and canteens, and a transport system within Talamban Campus
Since when has USC been designated as a Donee Institution by PCNC?
Answer: 2014
What is the total number of undergraduate and graduate scholars at USC at any given time?
Answer: More than 600 scholars
How much were the internal research grants awarded by USC between AY 2018-2021?
Answer: Over PHP11M
What is the name of the Library System at USC?
Answer: University’s Library System
What are the names of the scholarly journals published by USC?
Answer: The Philippine Scientist, the Philippine Quarterly of Culture and Society, and Devotio: Journal of Business and Economic Studies
What types of support are available for researchers at USC?
Answer: Ethics review, intellectual property and innovation and technology support, and animal care and use
How many Centers of Excellence (COEs) are designated by CHED in USC?
Answer: Eight (8)
What is the former name of Talamban Campus?
Answer: SVD Formation Center
What are the names of the two campuses established in 1956?
Answer: North Campus
What is the name of the organization that ranked USC among the best universities in the Philippines in 2023?
Answer: EduRank
How many non-print volumes are housed in the University’s Library System?
Answer: Almost 10,000 non-print volumes
What is the acronym of the organization that granted Autonomous Status to USC?
Answer: CHED
What organization evaluated the programs offered by USC and granted accreditation?
Answer: Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities (PAASCU)
What is the acronym for the organization that evaluated the engineering programs at USC?
Answer: PTC-ACBET
How many Centers of Development (CODs) are designated by CHED in USC?
Answer: Twelve (12)
What is the acronym for the organization that ranked USC between 451 to 500 in the QS University Rankings for Asia 2021?
Answer: QS
What is the name of the Philippine-based organization that evaluated USC's programs and granted accreditation?
Answer: Federation of Accrediting Associations of the Philippines (FAAP)
How many scholarly journals does USC publish?
Answer: Three scholarly journals
What is the total number of titles in the print collection of the University’s Library System?
Answer: Over 200,000 titles
How many years have passed since USC became a University?
Answer: Since 1948
What is the total number of patents filed by USC since 2012?
Answer: Nineteen patents
What is the name of the organization that grants Autonomous Status to universities in the Philippines?
Answer: Philippine Commission on Higher Education (CHED)
What type of accreditation did USC receive from the Philippine Technological Council-Accreditation and Certification Board for Engineering and Technology (PTC-ACBET)?
Answer: Accreditation for engineering programs