What factors determine the academic admission requirements at USC?
Answer: The status of the applicant student, the program he/she wishes to enroll in, and the requirements set by the different schools/departments.
Where can program-specific requirements for admission at USC be obtained?
Answer: From the respective school/department or the University Office of Recruitment and Admissions (ORA).
What reserves the right to refuse admission of any applicant at USC?
Answer: The University.
What type of examination must senior high school graduates and tertiary students wanting to transfer to USC take?
Answer: College Admission Examinations (CAE).
What policy does USC adopt regarding education?
Answer: Inclusive education.
What does USC support and welcome amongst all learners according to UNESCO Policy Guidelines?
Answer: Diversity amongst all learners from ethnic and linguistic minorities, rural populations, those affected by HIV and AIDS, and those with disabilities and difficulties in learning.
What must transferees secure from the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) before proceeding with the admissions process at USC?
Answer: A CLEARANCE.
What must transferees present during the interview at the OSFA?
Answer: Certificate of Good Moral Character from the school they last attended.
What are the requirements to take the qualifying examinations at USC?
Answer: Three (3) copies of 2” x 2” ID pictures, pencil, testing fee.
What must transferees present to qualify for admission to a particular curricular program at USC?
Answer: Certificate of Transfer Credentials, Evaluative Copy of the Transcript of Records, Passing mark in the qualifying examinations.
At what stage of the admissions process must transferees have an interview with the Department Chair at USC?
Answer: During the interview at the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA).
What is the requirement for SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES (New First Years) to qualify for admission to a particular curricular program at USC?
Answer: Passing FINAL GRADE in all senior high school subjects.
What are the requirements for SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL ACADEMIC STRANDS applicants at USC?
Answer: They may be allowed to enroll in an academic program outside of his/her academic strands subject to the school/department policy on the taking of bridging courses.
What is the time limit for transferees to start their enrollment at USC?
Answer: No later than the third year of a four-year curriculum or fourth year of a five-year curriculum.
Where can a student find the complete admission process at USC?
Answer: The University website and/or the official social media page.