What are the documentation requirements for senior high school graduates or new first years upon enrollment at USC?
Answer: Original Form 138 (Senior High School Card - Grade 12), Original Copy of Birth Certificate from NSO/PSA, 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background, Accomplished Student’s Personal Data Sheet (online through ISMIS).
What documentation must transferees bring upon enrollment at USC?
Answer: Certificate of Transfer Credentials (Honorable Dismissal), Informative Copy of Transcript of Records, Original Copy of Birth Certificate from NSO/PSA, 1 copy 2x2 colored photo with white background, Accomplished Course Accreditation Form (through ISMIS), Clearance from the Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA), Accomplished Student’s Personal Data Sheet (through ISMIS), Other requirements where applicable.
What is required for international students from countries that are members of The Hague Conference on Private International Law (HCCH) upon enrollment at USC?
Answer: Form authenticated documents through the Apostille issued by the Secretary of State of the country of origin.
What must international students from countries not members of HCCH provide upon enrollment at USC?
Answer: Authentication with a red ribbon by the Philippine Embassy in the country of origin.
What documentation is required for graduates from schools abroad upon enrollment at USC?
Answer: Transcript of Records, Diploma/Certificate of graduation Grade 12, Photocopy of Passport bio-page showing date and place of birth, English Proficiency Requirement, Birth Certificate/Family Register/Household Register, Police Clearance (No Criminal Record), Original copy of notarized Affidavit of Support.
Where should the complete enrollment documentation be submitted at USC?
Answer: To the EXTERNAL RELATIONS AND INTERNATIONALIZATION OFFICE (ERIO), Downtown Campus.
Who may invalidate the enrollment of a student at USC?
Answer: The University.
What are cross enrollees and consortium students at USC?
Answer: Non-USC students who intend to enroll in the University for a semester subject to the approval of the Department Chair and School Dean.
What are the requirements for special students at USC?
Answer: Written approval from the School Dean and/or Department Chair, execution of a contract waiving the right to receive and demand credit for the work done, payment of required fees, possession of a Special Study Permit (for foreign students).
What documentation is required for Philippine-born alien students at USC?
Answer: Photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration I-Card (ACR I-Card) and Native Born Certificate of Registration (NBCR) certified by CHED.
What documentation is required for foreign-born alien students at USC?
Answer: Photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) certified by CHED.
What documentation is required for students whose parents are naturalized Filipinos at USC?
Answer: Photocopy of the Identification Certificate issued by the Bureau of Immigration certified against the original copy by CHED.
What prevails regarding the personal data and circumstances of each student at USC?
Answer: The name and other personal data and circumstances as indicated in his/her birth certificate or Alien Certificate of Registration.