Topic 39: Graduation

The following are the requirements for Graduation: Candidates for graduation are required to apply online in ISMIS for evaluation of their academic records a semester/term before graduation sothat any deficiency can be evaluated. Dates and deadlines for academic evaluation are announced each semester. After evaluating academic records, candidates for graduation should apply online for graduation in ISMIS. Dates and deadlines for the application for graduation are announced each semester. Candidates for graduation are required to accomplish online in ISMIS the clearance for graduation before the final examinations. Their official transcript of records and diplomas will be released when cleared of any financial and property obligations. After the final examinations, application for graduation will no longer be accommodated. The School of Law requires that a candidate’s application for graduation be approved by the Law Faculty and Board of Candidates for Graduation, who shall, among other things, take into consideration the ability of the candidates to pass the Bar Examination. Fines are imposed for late application.

There is no common requirement with regards to CES points that students need to earn prior to graduation. However, some departments require a certain minimum number of CES points that students should acquire to be cleared for graduation. For example, the Department of Computer, Information Sciences, and Mathematics (DCISM) requires 2 CES points from every graduating student, while all the departments in the School of Engineering (SOE) require 60 CES points from every graduating student.

As for Graduation Honors, during the Commencement Rites, both the Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors will be awarded to qualified graduates. For all honors, they must have not committed any infraction and have a Grade Point Average (GPA) of at least 1.70. The minimum GPA reuquirement for Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors is 1.70.

The GPA for the Standard Latin Honors is computed based on the final grades of all courses taken, except NSTP. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude which means With Highest Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude which means With Great Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude which means With Praise.

The GPA for the Carolinian Honors is computed based on the CHL guidelines and the final grades of all courses taken to account for all three components of the core values of USC: Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Highest Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Great Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Praise of San Carlos.

To graduate with honors, a student must:
- carry the required load per term continuously and without interruption as prescribed in the curriculum pursued, unless the student obtains an approved leave of absence for a maximum of one academic year.
-  have completed in USC at least 75% of the total number of academic units and have been in residence for at least three consecutive years immediately prior to graduation.
- carry a minimum study load of 12 units and a workload of at least six (6) hours per day if he/she is a working student for gainful employment, provided that he/she can submit on the date of application for graduation these pieces of evidence of his/her gainful employment: (a) certification of employment by his/her employer, and (b) SSS membership documents or any other pertinent document acceptable to the Awards and Graduation Committee (AGC).
- possess good moral character.
- not have incurred a failing grade (including NSTP and Physical Education TPE courses).

Transferees with unsatisfactory grade/s in the previous school may be considered for Latin honors, provided that he/she is enrolled in a different program in USC. However, shiftees with unsatisfactory grades in the previous program/s are disqualified from graduating with honors. A student may qualify for honors even if he/she has been underloaded for 3 units in a semester for a maximum of two semesters. The underload may also be justified if he/she is a working scholar or a varsity player or a member of the Performing Arts Group of the university.

A subsequent reduction of one rank shall be imposed for any deviation from the policies regarding an honor, including the underload incurred.