Topic 63: Directory of Academic Programs and Departments Part 2

The Department of General Education does not offer any program but instead handles General Education courses and Education with a Mission (EDM) courses. The Department of General Education can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 317, or through the following persons and emails - Director: Grace Magalzo-Bualat, MPS, LLB (gmbualat@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Charin R. Salindo (charinsalindoogem@gmail.com). The coordinator for EDM 1, EDM 2, and Ethics is Fr. Jerome S. Montesclaros, PhD, SVD (jeromesvd@yahoo.com). The coordinator for TCW, PC, LWR, and RPH is Owen O. de la Victoria, LLB, MAPA (oodelavictoria@usc.edu.ph). The coordinator for STS, UTS, MMW, and ART is Val B. Salares, MS (vbsalares@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Hospitality and Tourism offers the following programs: BS Hospitality Management, BS Tourism Management, and Diploma in Culinary Arts. The Department of Hospitality and Tourism can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 555/556, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Chair: Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Ms. Shalymar C. Urbano (scurbano@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Hospitality Management and Diploma in Culinary Arts is Dr. Myrla Mercedes B. Gidayawan (mbgidayawan@usc.edu.ph). The program head for BS Tourism Management is Mr. Demetrio S. Anticuando (dsanticuando@usc.edu.ph).

The College of Law offers the following programs: Juris Doctor (non-thesis), Juris Doctor (with thesis). The College of Law can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 566/567, or through the following persons and emails: Dean: Atty. Jose Glenn C. Capanas (jgccapanas@usc.edu.ph), Assistant Dean: Atty. Daryl Bretch M. Largo, LLM (dbmlargo@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering offers the following programs: BS Mechanical Engineering, MS Mechanical Engineering. The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 154, or through its chair, Michael E. Loretero, PhD (meloretero@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Industrial Engineering offers the following programs: BS Industrial Engineering, MS Industial Engineering. The Department of Industrial Engineering can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 224, or through its chair, Dr. Lorafe Lozano (lflozano@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nursing offers the following programs: BS Nursing, MA Nursing. The Department of Nursing can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 134, or through its chair, Maria Lourdeni A. Ruaya, RN, MAN, JD (mlaruaya@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics offers the program BS Nutrition and Dietetics. The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 160, or through its chair: Ms. Lianne M. Cormanes, RND, MPA, MSc (lmcormanes@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Pharmacy offers the program BS Pharmacy, Certificate in Clinical Pharmacy, and MS Pharmacy. The Department of Pharmacy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 321, or through its chair, Gerard Lee L. See, RPh, MSc, PHD (pharmsec@iusc.edu.ph).

The Department of Philosophy offers the following programs: Bachelor Philosophy, MA Philosophy, PhD Philosophy. The Department of Philosophy can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 124, or through the following emails – philoreldept@usc.edu.ph, philosec@usc.edu.ph.

The Department of Physics offers the following programs: BS Applied Physics, MS Physics, and PhD Physics. The Department of Physics can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 145, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Renante Violanda, PhD (rrviolanda@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Mary Aileen Baculpo, MS (physicssec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Political Science offers the following programs: BA Political Science (major in International Relations and Foreign Service, Law and Policy Studies), MA Political Science, MA Public Management and Development. The Department of Political Science can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 578, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Rejene T. Lakibul, MPMD (rtlakibul@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Irish L. Managbanag, MS (poscsec@usc.edu.ph).

The Department of Psychology offers the following programs: BS Psychology, MA Psychology (concentration in Social Psychology, Industrial and Organizational Psychology), MA Clinical Psychology, MA Guidance and Counseling. The Department of Psychology can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 131, or through the following persons and emails - Chair: Reuel Joab C. Yap, PhD (rcyap@usc.edu.ph), Secretary: Katrina Esco (psycssec@usc.edu.ph).