Topic 19: Enrollment Concerns

If there are no more slots for General Education courses under your department, wait for open market period where you can pick other groups which are from the other departments. Be mindful of the building and room assigned for the schedule.

If there are no more slots for a major course offered by your department, reach out to your program coordinator. We also request the affected students to be patient as the coordinators have to consider the classroom and teacher availability before being able to open another class group for a particular course. Note that during adjustment period, classes with insufficient students will be dissolved so the extra needed groups may be held in those timeslots instead.

Where can I see a list of Programs in USC with their prospectus? To see the list of Programs in the University and the contact details of all Departments, check the Program Owners powerpoint in the Comprehensive Enrollment Guide. A syllabus may be requested from the Department that handles the Program. Only the prospectus of your Program is found in your ISMIS account.

Why has my INC has the override application been disapproved? You may have not properly indicated your course in the application. Students can check their application status by clicking the eye button beside their application form.	

The tuition fees that a student should pay for the semester depends on the program enrolled in, the year level of the students, the number of courses taken, the type of the courses taken by the student (lecture or laboratory), the type of offering for the class(regular, petition, or tutorial), and the department offering the courses taken by the student. The department sets the course fees and laboratory fees for the courses they offer which is fixed and can only be changed by university-wide fee adjustments. To know the tuition fee amount to pay for the current semester, log in to your ISMIS account and click "Student Task", "Others", then "Assessment". The tuition fee for the course will be reflected once you have enrolled in that course during the enrollment period. You may also access the tuition fees from the past semesters by toggling the Semester and Year dropdowns in the Assessment page. In the Assessment page, you can also view a breakdown of your dues of the current semester, which include semestral fees and other adjustments aside from your tuition fees.  

The projected tuition fees for each program in USC can be viewed in this Reddit post: https://bit.ly/usctuitionfees
The said post shows the breakdown of the fees per semester for all the programs.

To apply for promissory note, go to "Promissory Note" in ISMIS and click "Apply Promissory Note". Note that the promissory note application module is only available only within the enrollment period. Choose the option "Enrollment" in the dropdown list if the promissory is for balance for the previous semester. After inputting the installment plan for the outstanding balance, provide the amount and promised date when you would like to settle the amount you have indicated. You may chooose to have 2, 3 or 4 installment options to settle the balance depending on your choice. The amount indicated in the installment plan is on top of the current semester's dues. When inputing the amount, do not use comma separators. An interval of at least 30 days must be observed between installment updates. Total installment payment must equal to the balance shown up to the last cent. Note that a student cannot apply for another promissory note if he or she has not settled the balances from the previous promissory note. Only one active promissory notes can exist at a time. After applying for promissory note, you still need to pay for the downpayment before you can proceed to enrollment.

What is an Institutional Student Programs and Services Fee? The fee is for various services maintained for administrative support, Information Technology (IT), and energy as per Fr. Arthur Villanueva, Vice President for Finance in his Advisory dated July 24, 2020.

To access the Library Services of USC online, go to "Student Task" in ISMIS, then click "Library Related" and choose any of the options provided. Log in again using your USC email credentials when prompted.

Following are the face to face class reminders: Arrive on campus on time based on your class schedules. Your teachers will be meeting you for their course orientations. Allow extra travel time for traffic and to locate your rooms. Proceed to your classroom on time, even if you don't have an assigned teacher. Your final lineup of teachers will be released at the end of the adjustment period. If your teacher does not show up 30 minutes after class starts, it will be cancelled. You will be dismissed 10 minutes before the end of class to transfer to your next class.

For summer terms, only non-block enrollment will be available, and the maximum number of units that a student can enroll in a summer term is 9 units. You are allowed to take any course that is found in your prospectus provided that you have met all the pre-requisites. However, this may disqualify you from Latin Honors as you will be deviating from a regular load for the succeeding semesters.

Payments that are made in campus (i.e. cashiers in DC or TC) are reflected immediately, whereas bank payments will take 2 to 3 banking days to reflect in your account. Therefore, you are able to enroll immediately after paying your downpayment in campus. Do not forget to secure your payment receipts for your keeping.

The payment channels can be accessed in this websites: https://www.usc.edu.ph/updated-payment-channels. Payments can be also made onsite through the cashiers in TC and DC.

Underload (i.e. not enrolling in all of the prescribed number of units) is allowed but might be subjected to a longer stay in USC to complete all the units needed to graduate. Students who are deciding to underload should consult the department for policies which might affect their eligibility to remain in their department especially if their extension of stay is beyond the maximum allowed by the department. Underload also disqualifies you from being a Dean's Lister.