Topic 34: Fees and Fees Adjustments

Once a student is enrolled, he/she is expected to settle the full tuition and other school fees within the term. Term refers to a semester or summer a student is enrolled in. 

The projected tuition fees for each program in USC can be viewed in this Reddit post: https://bit.ly/usctuitionfees
The said post shows the breakdown of the fees per semester for all the programs.

Tuition and other school fees may be paid in full at the time of enrollment or by installment (amount set by the Office of Finance). Full tuition and other school fees during enrollment may be paid without prejudice to any additional assessment that may be applied during the term. Information related to rate increases in tuition and other school fees may not have been available/disseminated at the time of enrollment. Students can pay their fees at the cashier which is located at the ground floor of Bunzel building, or through online means.

Discounts are granted on full payment of school fees within the specified period set by the Office of Finance. Discounts vary depending on the form of payment, whether in cash, credit card, or others. Students who wish to avail of the discount are advised to apply at the Accounting Office within a specified time during the enrollment period; otherwise, the privilege will be forfeited. 

Students who cannot pay their tuition and other fees in full during enrollment may settle their account on an installment basis, provided that the downpayment is made at enrollment according to the amount fixed by the University, and the balance must be paid monthlyor on scheduled examination dates. 

The payment status of students can be viewed by teachers on the class lists in ISMIS.

A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the enrollment period during the regular semester of summer term shall be charged P500.00 non-refundable. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the first week of classes during a regular semester or within the first to third day of classes during a summer term shall be charged matriculation fee plus 10% of the remaining total school fees. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment within the second week of classes during a regular semester or within the fourth to sixth day of classes during a summer term shall be charged matriculation fee plus 20% of the remaining total school fees. A student who withdraws his or her enrollment after the second week of classes during a regular semester or from the seventh day of classes onwards during a summer term shall be charged 100% of the total school fees. A refund of the amount paid (less processing charges and less non refundable matriculation fees) shall be made if the student withdraws during the enrollment period, but prior to the opening of classes.

Members of the same family, that is, brothers and sisters, enrolled during the regular academic year/semester in any of the basic education departments and/or undergraduate colleges of the University (except Montessori, Law, and Graduate programs) are granted a five (5%) percent discount each on tuition fees only or as prescribed by the Office of Finance. This shall be limited to just four (4) students.

Application forms for fee adjustment for children of University employees and members of the same family are available at the Office of the Vice President for Finance.