Topic 36: General Courses

General Education. As expressly provided in the CHED CMO No. 20, series of 2013, this is the portion of the curriculum common to all undergraduate students regardless of their major. It exposes them to various domains of knowledge and ways of comprehending social and natural realities, developing in the process their intellectual and civic competencies. Students are then required to take interdisciplinary general education courses consisting of 24 units of core courses, 9 units of elective courses, and 3 units on the life and works of Rizal.

Education with a Mission. In addition to the regular curriculum requirements, all students, regardless of nationality, race, religion, culture, beliefs, must take six (6) units of Education with a Mission (EDM) courses. This facilitates understanding and prepares them to assume their role: Witness to the Word.

Physical Education. Students are required to complete eight (8) units of Physical Education (TPE) during their first two (2) years. Simultaneous enrollment in two (2) or more TPE courses in a particular term is not permitted. TPE units are included in the summation of the total study load for the term and in the computation of the grade point average (GPA). Students with particular medical conditions or disabilities may take adapted TPE classes in consultation with the Department of Physical Education.

National Service Training Program.The Implementing Rules and Regulations of National Service Training Program (NSTP) Act of 2001 states that "all incoming freshmen students, male and female, starting school year 2002-2003, enrolled in any baccalaureate program and in at least 2-year technical and vocational or associate course, are required to complete one NSTP component of their choice, as a graduation requirement." It has the following components which the students can choose from: Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), Literacy Training Service (LTS), and Civic Welfare Training Service (CWTS). Each of these components shall be undertaken for an academic period of two (2) semesters; and shall be credited for three (3) units with 54 to 90 training hours each semester. International students, however, are not required to enroll in the NSTP. International students are exempted from taking NSTP.