Topic 41: CHL Recognition and Previleges

The Carolinian Honors is awarded every semester. Students who obtain a CHL average of at least 1.7 will be included in the Carolinian Honors List. A Certificate of Recognition will be awarded in a formal ceremony to be conducted by the School concerned. The top three (3) rank of each Cluster will be given a scholarship in the form of a tuition fee discount. The list of clusters include Architecture, Fine Arts and Design, then Arts, then sciences, then Accountancy and Economics, then Business Administration and Hospitality management, then Education, then Engineering, and Health care Professions. For each cluster, the first in rank gets a 100% tuition fee discount, the second in rank gets a 75% tuition discount, and the third in rank gets a 50% tuition fee discount. If the first in rank of each cluster is already enjoying a full scholarship either by government/private/University sponsorship, the next in line will be given the CHL scholarship. If the student has an existing University scholarship, the one with the higher privilege will be availed. If the student is enjoying a government or private partial scholarship, the CHL privilege will serve as a supplement to cover the difference in tuition fees. Note that the ranking is based on the overall GPA of the students in a cluster during the given semester, and not based on the level of award determined by their GPA brackets.

During the Commencement Rites, both the Latin Honors and Carolinian Honors will be awarded to qualified graduates. 

The GPA for the Standard Latin Honors is computed based on the final grades of all courses taken, except NSTP. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude which means With Highest Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude which means With Great Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude which means With Praise. A student with a GPA of 1.71 and above is not eligible for honors.

The GPA for the Carolinian Honors is computed based on the CHL guidelines and the final grades of all courses taken to account for all three components of the core values of USC: Scientia, Virtus, and Devotio. A student with a GPA of 1.00 to 1.20 is awarded with Summa Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Highest Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.21 to 1.45 is awarded with Magna Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Great Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.46 to 1.70 is awarded with Cum Laude Caroli Sancti which means With Praise of San Carlos. A student with a GPA of 1.71 and above are is eligible for honors.