Topic 60: Directory of Student Support Services and Programs Part 1

The Athletics Office caters queries and concerns regarding the following: tryouts, privileges, booking of sports facilities, policies regarding sports events, rental rates of sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and tennis court. For inquiries and concerns regarding tryouts, privileges, booking of sports facilities, policies regarding sports events, rental rates of sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and tennis court, contact the Athletic Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 523, or through the following persons and emails: Fr. Adriano Ocariza (acocariza@usc.edu.ph), Marvin Avergonzado (mnavergonzado@usc.edu.ph), Patrick Philipp Gamaliel Uno (pguno@usc.edu.ph).

The Campus Ministry Office caters queries regarding the following: Liturgical Services (Daily Masses, Sunday Masses, First Friday Mass, Novena Masses, Mass for the Dead), Prayer Intentions (Mass Intentions and Mass Sponsorship), Sacraments (Anointing and Confession), Blessing (House and Office), Spiritual Direction and Counselling, Vocation and Mission Animation, Faith Sharing, Retreat and Recollection Giving, Lector and Altar Servers Training, Basic Bible Seminar, JPIC, and Arnold Janssen Spirituality Workshop. The Campus Ministry Office is located under St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Chapel in Talamban Campus, and 3rd Floor Dingman Building in Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Liturgical Services (Daily Masses, Sunday Masses, First Friday Mass, Novena Masses, Mass for the Dead), Prayer Intentions (Mass Intentions and Mass Sponsorship), Sacraments (Anointing and Confession), Blessing (House and Office), Spiritual Direction and Counselling, Vocation and Mission Animation, Faith Sharing, Retreat and Recollection Giving, Lector and Altar Servers Training, Basic Bible Seminar, JPIC, and Arnold Janssen Spirituality Workshop, contact the Campus Ministry Office through the following: Office of the University Chaplain (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 251, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Talamban Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 135, Email: univchaplain@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus Office (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 540/541, Email: chaplaindc@usc.edu.ph)

The Community Extension Services (CES) Office caters queries regarding the following: CES activities, CES events, CES programs, CES projects, CES forms, CES application. The Community Extension Services (CES) Office offers the following transformative programs: Mission Exposure Program, Research and Development Program, and CES Carolinian Volunteers program. For inquiries and concerns regarding CES activities, CES events, CES programs, CES projects, CES forms, CES application, Mission Exposure Program, Research and Development Program, and CES Carolinian Volunteers program, contact the Community Extension Services (CES) office through landline (032) 2300100 local 549, or through its head, Bonifacio N. Mercado Jr. (bnmercado@usc.edu.ph, ces@usc.edu.ph). The Community Extension Services (CES) office is located at the 2nd floor of USC Mission Center, Fr. Ludwig Lehmeier Building, Downtown Campus.

The Mission Exposure Program helps the students to understand the importance of context in pursuing development, demonstrate devotion to work for the poor and those in the margins, define the contexts of varied communities where mission exposure is done, and describe the challenges confronting the members of the community.

The Research and Development Program helps the students to understand the RDEPO framework and intended outcomes of the university, understand the ethical practices in research, and conduct studies the results of which may serve as bases for developing extension programs and projects.

The CES Carolinian Volunteers helps the students to show the talents and skills he/she can share in serving as Carolinian volunteer, share one’s leadership skills in collaboration with other volunteers, perform the essential skills to work with and in teams, and undergo actual volunteering work.

The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) caters queries and concerns regarding the following: Online interview for new students, Counseling appointment, Psycho-educational activities, Shiftee interview, Exit interviews, Complete withdrawal interview, referral, Psychological testing, Consultations, and Appraisal. The Counseling and Development Center (CDC) also offers the following programs: Mental health Program, Career Development Program, and Peer facilitator Program. For inquiries and concerns regarding online interview for new students, Counseling appointment, Psycho-educational activities, Shiftee interview, Exit interviews, Complete withdrawal interview, referral, Psychological testing, Consultations, Mental health Program, Career Development Program, and Peer facilitator Program, contact the Counseling and Development Center.

The main office of the Counseling and Development Center (CDC) is located at the Main Hallway, Ground Floor, Fr. Arthur Dingman Building immediately next to the Information Office, Downtown Campus (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 554). The Satellite CDC Offices for Talamban Campus are as follows: Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for School of Engineering (Ms. Lilybeth Requilme - lprequilme@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Santos Camomot - sgcamomot@usc.edu.ph, Mr. Gilbert Abejar - gpabejar@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 105), Second Floor Philip van Engelen (SAS) Building for the School of Arts and Sciences (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 142), Second Floor Robert Hoeppner (Nursing) Building for School of Healthcare Professions (Ms. Teresa Alquezola - tsalquezola@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 134), Right side of the Lobby Area in School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (SAFAD) Building for School of Architecture, Fine Arts and Design (Ms. Cheryl M. Lao - cmlao@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 215).

The Dormitory caters queries regarding the following: Dorm room availment, Room accommodation and rates, Dorm reservation fee, Payment for dorm changes, Unblocking of dorm residents, and Residents status in the dorm. The Dormitory is located across the Science, Mathematics, and Education (SMED) Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Dorm room availment, Room accommodation and rates, Dorm reservation fee, Payment for dorm changes, Unblocking of dorm residents, and Residents status in the dorm, contact the Dormitory through landline (032) 2300100 local 271, or its head, Teresita R. Libod-libod (trlibodlibod@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section caters queries regarding the following: Online payments, verification of payment channels, verification of online payments and transactions, wire transfer details, payments for testing fees, payments for good moral character, and payments outside tuition fees. For inquiries and concerns regarding the Online payments, verification of payment channels, verification of online payments and transactions, wire transfer details, payments for testing fees, payments for good moral character, and payments outside tuition fees, contact the Finance - Treasury Office or Tellering Section through landline (032) 2300100 local 173/616, or through email (offsitecol@usc.edu.ph).

The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section caters queries regarding the following: Tuition fees, privileges and discounts, family and sibling discounts, full payment discounts, same family privilege, credit memos provided by the Scholarship Office for tuition fee subsidy, Accounting Clearance, Assessment Queries, Student refund on admissions withdrawal, and Promissory Note Assistance. The Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section is located in the 2nd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building, Talamban Campus; and Ground Floor Arthur Dingman Building, Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Tuition fees, privileges and discounts, family and sibling discounts, full payment discounts, same family privilege, credit memos provided by the Scholarship Office for tuition fee subsidy, Accounting Clearance, Assessment Queries, Student refund on admissions withdrawal, and Promissory Note Assistance, contact the, contact the Finance - Comptroller’s Office or Assessment Section through landline (032) 2300100 local 162/552 and email (assessmenttertiary@usc.edu.ph).

The Health Services Office caters queries regarding the following: Request for online and onsite health consultation and referral, Request for Medical Certificate for School Related Activities and Concerns, Physical and dental examination for freshmen and transferees, First Aid for emergency cases, Starter doses for common illnesses (over-the-counter medications), and Request for Letter of Authorization (LOA) for students who sustained accident injuries. The Health Services Office also offers the Healthy Student Lifestyle program which provides different health educational activities that engage students in healthy lifestyle practices which promote health and prevent illnesses. The Health Services Office is located in the Clinic besides the Business Administration Department, Downtown Campus, and Basement of Lawrence Bunzel Building for Talamban Campus. For inquiries and cocerns regarding Request for online and onsite health consultation and referral, Request for Medical Certificate for School Related Activities and Concerns, Physical and dental examination for freshmen and transferees, First Aid for emergency cases, Starter doses for common illnesses (over-the-counter medications), and Request for Letter of Authorization (LOA) for students who sustained accident injuries, contact the Health Services Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 103/546, or through email (healthservices@usc.edu.ph). The contact persons for Health Services Office are Elena Plazl Pasuelo and Rennel Joseph Toremotcha for Downtown Campus, and Sheila Fatima Fernandez and Romela Arias for Talamban Campus.

The Internal Audit Office caters queries regarding the charges for petition and tutorial classes of the undergraduate students. The Internal Audit Office is located at the Ground Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding the charges for petition and tutorial classes of the undergraduate students, contact the Internal Audit Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 280/281, or through email (internalaudit@usc.edu.ph).