Topic 61: Directory of Student Support Services and Programs Part 2

The Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) caters queries regarding the following: ISMIS issues, ISMIS accounts, IT Helpdesk, Email, RFID, Canvas, USC Emails, and USC Google Workspace. The IRMO is located at the Basement Floor of Arthur Dingman Building in Downtown Campus and 3rd Floor of Lawrence Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding ISMIS issues, ISMIS accounts, IT Helpdesk, Email, RFID, and USC Google Workspace, contact the Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) through landline (032) 2300100 local 107/506 and email (irmoacs@usc.edu.ph). For concerns regarding Canvas and USC emails, contact the Information Resource Management Office (IRMO) through email (irmotns@usc.edu.ph).

The USC Library caters queries regarding the following: Unreturned books, Unsettled library fines, Borrowing of books, Status of books, and Access to Online Resources and Services. The USC Library is located in the Josef Baumgartner Learning Resource Center (JB-LRC) of Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Unreturned books, Unsettled library fines, Borrowing of books, Status of books, and Access to Online Resources and Services, contact the USC Library through landline (032) 2300100 local 198 or through the following persons and emails: Sharleen G. Ramos (sgramos@usc.edu.ph), Divina Tenorio (dctenorio@usc.edu.ph), Janice Berdin (jfberdin@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Alumni Affairs, Scholarships and Job Placement caters queries regarding the following: Scholarships, USC Student Financial Assistance Program and Sponsors, Scholarship Application Form, Procedure and Requirements, Scholarship Confirmation, Release of Allowances for Scholars, Status of Previlege, Balance, Delay of Payment, Letter-Explanation for Deficiency in Grades, Employment Opportunities, Internship Opportunities, Partner Companies, Alumni matters, and Alumni ID for Fresh Graduates. For inquiries and concerns regarding Scholarships, Student Financial Assistance Program and Sponsors, Scholarship Application Form, Procedure and Requirements, Scholarship Confirmation, Release of Allowances for Scholars, contact Christine Y. Alpis (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 276/406, Email: scholarship@usc.edu.ph). For inquiries and concerns regarding Alumni Affairs and Alumni ID, contact Ferdinand S. Boncayao (Email: fsboncayao@usc.edu.ph and alumni@usc.edu.ph). For inquiries and concerns regarding Job Placement such as Employment Opportunities, Internship Opportunities, and Partner Companies, contact Fe C. Salva (Landline: (032) 2300100 local 547, Email: fcsalva@usc.edu.ph and jobplacement@usc.edu.ph).

The External Relations and Internationalization office (ERIO) caters queries regarding the following: International Students, International Student Transferees, Filipino graduates from Abroad, and Dual citizenship students graduating in the Philippines and abroad. The External Relations and Internationalization Office is located in the 2nd Floor of the Law Building besides the Political Science Department Office, Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding International Students, International Student Transferees, Filipino graduates from Abroad, and Dual citizenship students graduating in the Philippines and abroad, contact the External Relations and Internationalization Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 552 or through the following persons and emails - Director: Ms. Brenette Abrenica (ext_relations@usc.edu.ph), International Students Liaison officer: Ms. Alma A. Trinidad (aatrinidad@usc.edu.ph).

The National Service Training Program (NSTP) office caters queries regarding the following: Request for Serial Number, Emergency Response Trainings, University Earthquake Drill and Fire Drill, Safety Preparedness programs, Information Services for Disaster Risk Reduction Management Program. The National Service Training program (NSTP) office is located near the St. Arnold Janssen and St. Joseph Freinademetz Church in Talamban Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Request for Serial Number, Emergency Response Trainings, University Earthquake Drill and Fire Drill, Safety Preparedness programs, Information Services for Disaster Risk Reduction Management Program, contact the National Service Training Program (NSTP) Office through landline (032) 2300100 local 159 or through the officer in charge, Ms. Emma E. Sema (eeselma@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Recruitment and Admission caters queries regarding the following: Admissions, Admission Requirements, Validation of Admission Requirements, Program Offerings, College Application, College Admission Examinations, Updating of Online Personal Data Sheet. The Office of Recruitment and Admissions is located in the main lobby of Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concernsregarding Admissions, Admission Requirements, Validation of Admission Requirements, Program Offerings, College Application, College Admission Examinations, Updating of Online Personal Data Sheet, contact the Office of Recruitment and Admissions through landline (032) 2300100 local 521 or through email of the admissions officer: admissionsoff@usc.edu.ph / admissions-apply@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of the Registrar caters queries regarding the following: Unblocking Clearance, Clearance for Returnees, Transfer Credentials, Transcript of Records, Advising in Petition and Tutorial Classes, Overload Courses, Simultaneous Enrollment of courses, Tagging to new program for shiftees, Updating of ISMIS account for returnees, and Accreditation of courses. The Office of the Registrar is located 100 meters straight ahead of the Gate 3 entrance in Talamban Campus.

All concerns to the registrar should be addressed through email. For queries and concerns regarding accreditation of courses, email bdano@usc.edu.ph for School of Healthcare Professions (SHCP), School of Law and Governance (SLG), and School of Arts and Sciences (SAS), kmmracuya@usc.edu.ph for School of Architecture, Fine Arts, and Design (SAFAD), School of Engineering (SOE), and School of Education (SED), for School of Business and Economics, cdgomez@usc.edu.ph for Department of Accountancy and Department of Hospitality and Tourism, and lldeligero@usc.edu.ph for Department of Business Administration and Department of Economics. For queries and concerns regarding unlocking clearance, email rfmeneses@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding clearance for returnees, email registrar@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding transfer credential and transcript of records, email recordssection@usc.edu.ph. For queries and concerns regarding advising in petition and tutorial courses, overload, simultaneous enrollement of courses, tagging to new program for shiftees, updating of ISMIS account for returnees, email njttiu@usc.edu.ph. For other concerns directed towards the Office of the Registrar, email registrar@usc.edu.ph.

The Office of Security and Safety caters queries regarding the following: Motor vehicle pass stickers (MVPS), Campus Entry Request, Classroom and facility utilization monitoring, Lost and Found Items, Incident reports, Security CCTV Footages monitoring, Information Services and assistance (office location and schedule of offices). The Office of Security and Safety is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building in Talamban Campus, and Ground Floor of Arthur Dingman Building (Besides the Office of Recruitment and Admissions) in Downtown Campus. FOr inquiries and concerns regarding Motor vehicle pass stickers (MVPS), Campus Entry Request, Classroom and facility utilization monitoring, Lost and Found Items, Incident reports, Security CCTV Footages monitoring, Information Services and assistance (office location and schedule of offices), contact the Office of Security and Safety can be contacted through landline (032) 2300100 local 169/584 or through the following contact persons and emails - Talamban Campus: Mr. Romeo Suganob and Mr. Dominador Bautista (securitytc@usc.edu.ph), Downtown Campus: Mr. Elmer Carungay (securitydc@usc.edu.ph).

The Office of Student Formation and Activities (OSFA) caters queries regarding the following: Student Discipline Formation Programs, Request for Certificate of Good Moral Character, Confiscated School IDs, School ID Replacement, Transferee and Returnee Students Interview and Clearance, School Uniform Concerns, Uniform Exemption Application, Gender and Development Programs, Student Organizations, Student Councils, Carolinian Leadership Program, Carolinian Gender Equity Program, Agak-Amuma Program, Posters for Posting, Approval of Activities for Student Organizations, Registration of Student Organizations. The Office of Student Formation and Activities is located in the Basement of Bunzel Building (across the Clinic) in Talamban Campus, Main Lobby (facing Accountancy Department) in Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Student Discipline Formation Programs, Request for Certificate of Good Moral Character, Confiscated School IDs, School ID Replacement, Transferee and Returnee Students Interview and Clearance, School Uniform Concerns, Uniform Exemption Application, Gender and Development Programs, Student Organizations, Student Councils, Carolinian Leadership Program, Carolinian Gender Equity Program, Agak-Amuma Program, Posters for Posting, Approval of Activities for Student Organizations, and Registration of Student Organizations, contact the Office of Student Formation and Activities via landline (032) 2300100 local 102/592, or through the following persons and emails – Student Discipline Officer – Mr. Lolito Belonguel (lsbelonguel@usc.edu.ph), Student Activities Officer – Ms. Kathleen Joyce C. Convicto (osfaso@usc.edu.ph), Gender and Development Officer – Ms. Jasmin Owacan (jeowacan@usc.edu.ph), Head of OSFA – Ms. Catherine Algoso (csalgoso@usc.edu.ph). 

The Office of the Performing Arts Group caters concerns regarding Application for Membership, Trainings, and Schooling Privilege for Performing Arts. The Office of the Performing Arts Group is located in the Gym of Downtown Campus. For inquiries and concerns regarding Application for Membership, Trainings, and Schooling Privilege for Performing Arts, contact the Office of the Performing Arts Group through the Coordinator, Golda Lisi B. Villahermosa (Email: glbvillahermosa@usc.edu.ph). The Choristers Music Director is Roberto G. del Rosario (Email: rgdelrosario@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 524). The Dance Troupe Choreographer is Jose Miguel T. Cabasagan (Email: jmtcabasagan@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 572). The Theatre Guild Director is Mary Ann B. Lumacang (Email: mablumacang@usc.edu.ph, Landline: (032) 2300100 local 593).

The Semper Fidelis, which means "Always Faithful", is the is the official graduate yearbook of the University of San Carlos. The annual publication is a testament of the hard-work and determination of Carolinians for successfully hurdling their academic journeys and of their readiness to conquer the professional world ahead of them. The official email of the Semper Fidelis Committee is semperfidelis@usc.edu.ph. 
