Topic 65: Motor Vehicle Rules and Guidelines

The Security and Safety personnel or the designated security officer issues the Motor Vehicle Pass sticker to the applicant by sticking it at the lower left had corner (driver's side) of the vehicle's windshield or any appropriate and visible portion of the motorcycles.

Only one (1) Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker is allowed per applicant. Should there be a need for more, the applicant must submit a letter of request stating a valid reason to the VP for Administration. Such request is then subject for review.

No sticker, no entry. Motor vehicles, cars, trucks, and motorcycles without stickers cannot be entered into the campus. The provision and use of a parking space and drop and pick up places in the campus is a privilege and not a right. Therefore, the University of San Carlos reserves the right to refuse entry to any vehicle without a proper Motor Vehicle Pass sticker.

Only vehicles and motorcycles with valid USC Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker are allowed entry inside the campus to park (self-driven) or drop and pick-up bona fide USC students (drop and pick-up).

All motor vehicles or motorcycles are subject for security inspection upon entry and exit. Therefore, the window in the driver's side must be opened. A valid USC school ID of the student must be presented to security personnel upon entry.

Note: For outsiders, they are to be secured a Campus Entry permit instead which is applied by the activity organizers, and not the motorvehicle pass as this is intended only for all USC personnel only. there is no payment for the Campus Entry Permit.

The following rules must be strictly observed for motor vehicle pass or car sticker owners inside the campus: Observe courtesy to security personnel; no overspeeding (speed limit is 25 kph); no parking on corners and curve areas of the road (observe 6 meters' distance from the corner); no loud radio or stereo music; no blowing of horns; no parking in non-designated area; no idling of engines and other unnecessary high torque revolution. 

Violation to the motor vehicle pass or car sticker rules and regulations, guidelines, and policies of the University will be dealt with by the following:
First offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) week
Second offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) month
Third offense - Temporary suspension of privilege for one (1) semester
Fourth offense - Cancellation of privilege

For drop and pick up applicants, driver's attire is expected to be neat, clean & decent upon entry in the campus; sleeveless, shorts & slippers are not allowed. Parking is not allowed inside the campus. Waiting time is 10 to 15 minutes only.

Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker is non-transferrable and must be placed on the front windshield in the left side of the vehicle. Tampering or transferring of car pass stickers is a serious offense subject to cancellation of privilege. 

Only the Security and Safety personnel or designated security officer is authorized to remove the Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker and issue a citation ticket. Should you wish to reapply for a vehicle pass after serving the suspension period due to a violation, you may do so by requesting for unblocking of your account and reprinting of the sticker at the Office of Security and Safety. This is also subject for approval and payment should only be made once the request is approved. Any vehicle displaying a USC Motor Vehicle Pass Sticker that is forged is subject to citation, immobilization and disciplinary action.

The University of San Carlos assumes no responsibility for any loss or damage to parked vehicles.