Topic 68: OSFA Guidelines for Fundraising Activities

FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES

All fundraising activities whether in the form of donations (in cash or in kind), sale of novelty items, raffle and other similar activities by any student council/organization shall be subject to the approval of the Office of Student Formation and Activities. Fundraising for the enjoyment of the organization members such as parties shall not be allowed.

PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES

1. A request letter must be executed by the student organization supported with a resolution form stating the following: (a) Activity details such as rationale, date and time when the activity is projected to be conducted, (b) Financial projections (projected income and expense), (c) Project Execution Plan 

2. Once given the permission to continue with the activity, the applying student organization may secure a copy of the Fundraising Activity Form and comply with the list of requirements provided by the Office of Student Formation and Activities.

3. Update the activity tracker and submit two (2) copies of the Fundraising Activity Form with the necessary documents and requirements to the Office of Student Formation and Activities

4. The student organizations may check the status of their proposal through the Activity Tracker after 3-4 days after the date of filing.
- APPROVED: All necessary documents and requirements are complete. 
- PENDING: The submitted documents and requirements are incomplete. 
- DENIED: Activity is not allowed for execution. 

5. No ticket should be printed unless permission has been granted by the Office of Student Formation and Activities. A sample copy of the ticket must be submitted together with the Fundraising Activity Form. All tickets shall be pre-printed and pre-numbered and must show the following information: logo/name of the sponsoring organization, program title, time, place and date of event and value of ticket. All tickets must be stamped by the Office of Student Formation and Activities prior to sale. Unsold tickets must be surrendered to the OSFA - Student Activities Section. Tickets not surrendered are assumed to be sold and should be integrated in the liquidation report. The student organization shall secure permits from respective government agencies (e.g. BIR, City Hall, etc.) if deemed necessary. 

6. Within six (6) school days after the activity, an accomplishment and financial report shall be submitted to the Office of Student Formation and Activities. 

7. Failure to submit the required reports will disqualify the student organization from conducting any activity until the report is submitted.
