The following lists the GE Free Electives that USC offers and their descriptions (Part 1):

Urban Sketching (GE-FEL US)
The course involves understanding perspective composition and application of freehand drawing techniques. It engages students in on-location sketching using pencil, pen and ink and watercolor as medium.

Indigenous Traditional Creative Crafts and Design (GE-FEL ITCCD)
This course enable students to attain knowledge and skills in knowing Philippine Indigenous Traditional Creative Crafts and Design so as to encourage students to develop and retain living traditions and culture appropriate in a global setting. Students will learn the roots of Handicraft implements in Pottery, weaving basketry and Carving. This elective presents a view of art and design integrating four foundational disciplines in aesthetics, criticism, history and production focusing Philippine craft and design traditions. A production of new media handicraft is required at the end of the semester.

Edible Landscaping (GE-FEL EL)
Edible landscaping is the practical integration of food and plants within an ornamental or decorative setting. The same design principles as for ornamental landscapes are used, while substituting edible plants such as lettuces, berries, vegetables and fruit trees for some of the otherwise unproductive plant material. Using edibles in landscape design can enhance a garden by providing a unique ornamental component with additional health, aesthetic, and economic benefits. Edible landscaping is a micture of beauty and utility. This course aims to develop wellness consciousness by introducing technology and use of edible plants as alternative to ornamental plants in planting design.

Operations Management in Daily Life (GE-FEL OMDL)
The course introduces to Operations Management is one of the GE - free elective for students from all programs who have the passion to learn about operations applied to daily undertakings. The course provides opportunity for students to use and gain mastery of the various analytical tools and techniques in operations management. After completing this course, the students can demonstrate knowledge and understanding in the proper planning, scheduling, budgeting that will save time, effort and money.

Introduction to Social Entrepreneurship (GE-FEL ISE)
The course Introduction to Social Entrepreneurship is one of the GE - free electives for students from all programs who have the passion to learn about doing business with a social mission. It presents social entrepreneurship as an alternative solution to social (i.e. poverty), cultural (i.e. women empowerment) and environmental issues (i.e. resiliency to climate change). It will be conducted through student-led discussion, problem – based learning and analysis of various case studies related to SE. The course starts with the identification of various social problems in the Philippines, particularly in Cebu. Students will use basic problem-solving tools and techniques in assessing the cause and effects of these social problems in society. After students will be introduced on the current state of Social Entrepreneurship in the Philippines, definition and its importance then the chapter will end by a presentation on success stories of various social entrepreneurs in the country. In creating and discovering social entrepreneurial opportunities, the students will gain mastery on SE opportunity recognition process through the need and opportunity assessment. The next chapter will allow students to come up with innovative solutions by a conceptualization of social enterprise. Students will also learn the basic principles of social impact theory, the theory of change approach and various SE operating models. After the conceptualization of the proposed Social Enterprise, students will learn on the various approaches in determining and evaluating the effectiveness of a social venture.

Living Sustainability in Cebu (GE-FEL LSC)
This course examines the many multidisciplinary ways we can live sustainably in Cebu by changing individual behavior to a "Green" Lifestyle, and by adopting a sustainable household. It covers Energy, and Water Conservation, Waste Management, Sustainable Housing, Food Production and Transportation, and Environmental Governance. The course covers the geographic scales of Individual Behavior, Household Management, Community Governance, City Governance, and the roll of Academia, Religion, The Press, The Arts, Associations, and NGOs. First we show how Filipino ancestors - the Malayo-Polynesians actually lived a sustainable existence by adopting traditions, beliefs and practices that were attuned to Earth's limited resources, the local natural environment and human psychology. We show that Filipinos were able to manage their common pool resources sustainably over thousands of years through example of indigenous practices like reef management and rice terrace farming. We briefly explore cultural practices of the pre-colonial Malayo Polynesians as recorded by the ancient Hawaiians that enabled them to live sustainably. We then briefly show how we ended up in the environmental crisis we now face through examining the three broad Eras of Human Existence, and the Four Phases of Western Civilization from 1500 to present. To understand individual and collective behavior we explore four psychological phenomena that can prevent our responding to the environmental changes around us: Compartmentalized Education, Groupthink, Colonial Mentality, and Technological Delusion. Finally, we see how we can steer a new sustainable course using guidelines from a) the Four Laws of Ecology by the father of the Environmental Movement, American Ecologist Barry Commoner, guidelines for institutional sustainability by Nobel Prize winner and Political Scientist Elinor Ostrom and c) the environmental Spiritualism of Pope Francis's Laudato Si. To adopt a "green Lifestyle" we first survey student behaviors, then discuss a) our unfolding "smart" phone addiction crisis, b) LED light exposure and blindness (AMD), c) sleep disruption from the screen blue light.

Coping with Climate Change (GE-FEL CCC)
This course provides an introduction to Climate Change and Global Warming, plus how we can better cope with its impacts. This material is of great interest to the world, and to the Philippines in particular, because this country is particularly threatened by its impacts. We start by looking at the basic relationship between the Sun and the Earth by exploring the fields of physics and math in a way all can understand. We examine the basics of physics of electromagnetic radiation and Earth’s radiation balance that determines the general temperature of planet Earth. Using simple algebra students solve Joseph Fourier’s equation of 1824 and learn about the “Greenhouse effect” he named. Students then gain a "planetary perspective" as we explore the basic climate differences between our world and our neighboring worlds: Venus, and Mars. Here we make use of many aspects of recent and ongoing research of planetary science to try to unravel data returned by our space probes. This information is critical to put the human environmental challenges on planet Earth in context. For example, Venus already suffers from a runaway greenhouse effect, and examining Mars shows why we can’t just switch planets and "colonize" Mars or another star system if we render Earth uninhabitable. We next tell the simple difference between climate and weather and their "prediction", which is often confused even by high-ranking government officials. We then examine the lives and discoveries of what may be the top four most important climate scientists using simple laboratory exercises and why their contributions are so important in our present understanding of our current climate crisis. Since the problem of Global Warming is intimately tided to the burning of the fossil fuels (and the basic chemistry that produces carbon dioxide CO2 that burning releases), we discuss the potential consequences of reaching a maximum production for oil now or in less than a decade. This point of maximum production of oil is now referred to as “Peak Oil” and may put severe strains on our present economic system, especially our transportation sectors. But will "Peak Oil" save us from the impacts of climate change?

Exploring the Oceans (GE-FEL EO)
The ocean occupies 70% of the planet. Earth is really a water planet. It is believed that life evolved in the ocean. It is also unlikely that our species (Homo sapiens) would ever exist without the ocean. The Philippines occupies a very unique geographic position since we are an archipelago and, as such, we are bounded by inland seas. Our sea offers vast resources that could be harnessed to provide food, energy, water and leisure. Hence, it is with this view in mind that we at the Department of Biology, University of San Carlos is offering this Free GE Elective to interested students who desperately want to explore (and later gain some knowledge) about the underwater world. Who knows after taking this course, you might consider your ‘true calling’ as a marine biologist. Your one-semester journey with this course will take you to a diversity of underwater topics ranging from the essential (concepts) to the practical (applications). There will be ample time to discuss about the future. Selected topics related to mariculture, marine biotechnology, renewable energy from the ocean, etc. will be presented to stimulate the interest of students who might want to go into business or form an NGO. It also goes without saying that the attendant and relevant socio-economic and political issues today related to the use of our territorial marine waters will be discussed to elicit opinions among the students enrolled in this course. The course tackles 4 core topics (energy, food, water, waste) related to the marine environment.