The following lists the GE Free Electives that USC offers and their descriptions (Part 2):

Healthy Living in the Tropics (GE-FEL HLT)
This course gives students understanding and experience on topics of how one makes a healthy living. The Philippines is within a tropical setting, thus, health status of the people reflects this tropical environment. Unhealthy lifestyles characterized by habits, foods, attitudes and diseases brought about by tropical insects and parasites, environmental problems (pollution, bioaccumulation natural episodes of red tide and the like) in developing countries will be highlighted in order to generate relevant mitigating measures. Students will find better understanding and gain the right attitudes towards better hygiene, healthy food production and preparation, proper waste and water management and personal health awareness and sustainability. Students are made to experience this inside the classroom and outside in their field activities and exposures.

Robotics Made Easy (GE-FEL RME)
This is a course that would tackle some challenges in robotics competitions. It is designed to provide students with or without experience in robotics, the ability to build robotic systems to achieve a defined objective. It covers concepts in robotics such as structure, sensing, locomotion, logic and control using robotic kits. Students will also be trained how to mentally prepare for team-based academic competitions.

Social Issues and Social Justice in the Philippine Setting (GE-FEL SISJPS)
This course, which takes into account the Catholic social teachings/tradition, deals with sociological perspectives of social issues and social justice in contemporary Philippine society, as related to global issues in a rapidly changing world. However, the course draws on relevant and helpful insights from other disciplines as exemplified by the Catholic social teaching. Emphasis is placed on the analysis of local, national and global social issues and on discussing possible alternatives. This is directed towards making an effective and sustained response to social injustices and promoting respect for human dignity, social justice, and equality. The course is experiential-critical in its basic approach.

Local Knowledge for Sustainable Development (GE-FEL LKSD)
The course introduces local knowledge (LK) as an important resource in communities utilized as basis for decision-making on various concerns, including food security, environmental management, health care, nutrition, technology, economic and social development, among others. Case studies on the use of LK in local development initiatives shall be presented to highlight good practices in integrating LK for sustainable development endeavors. In the context of a globalized and people’s interconnectedness through virtual reality, LK shall be discussed in relation to the analysis of social problems, creating solutions, and decision-making in contemporary societies.

Technology for Less (GE-FEL TFL)
This course introduces the principles of the technicalities in the usage of information and communication technologies (ICT). It is a tool for curating, contextualizing, collaborating and creating content and learning experiences in their respective field of specialization. This course explores on the concepts of software licensing, end user licensing agreements, software terms and conditions, freeware, and open source & collaborative software. This also includes the introduction of technological background needed for the information and communication technologies such as computer hardware resources. The students are expected to apply the knowledge and learning experiences that they obtain in this course in their respective field. In their respective profession, they will be able to observe consciousness in using information and communication technology responsibly.

Let's Talk About Relationships! (GE-FEL LTAR)
Establishing healthy and positive relationships is essential to humans. This course is designed to strengthen the foundation of communication in the context of relationship and interaction. It explores the principles, functions, relevance and value of communication in maintaining cordial, meaningful and enriching relationships with family, friends, colleagues in the workplace and organizations, and with the opposite sex. Through research-based insights, and real-world experiences, students will better understand themselves and their relationship dynamics with others, and apply useful approaches central to improving communication climates and situations.

Communicating in the Cyber World (GE-FEL CCW)
This course highlights technical and conceptual foundations of the cyber platforms as a tool to cultivate critical consumption of information and responsible participation. Moreover, it will help develop and critically examine the cultural competencies, technological and social skills necessary for the new media landscape and the essential knowledge on digital and media literacy. Further, it demonstrates an understanding of how networked technologies impact issues of diversity, including race, gender, class and regionalism and develop skills in identifying and citing credible sources to fight misinformation and fake news that is prevalent today.

Energy Wise: Are You Green? (GE-FEL EW-AYG)
Our society today is highly dependent on energy for daily activities. As modernization comes, communities shift from traditional sources of energy such as firewood to modern and clean forms of energy such as electricity. This course introduces learners to the basics of electricity and its appropriate and wise use. It covers why and how we use electricity at home, what we pay for in our electric bills, how electricity reaches consumers, the effect of energy consumption to the environment, what is renewable energy, the economics of rooftop solar panels, how to do a household energy audit, how to choose energy-efficient appliances, what personal practices contribute towards energy efficiency and conservation, how Philippine laws and policies enable sustainable use of energy, what is energy poverty, how energy access enables development, and how can one contribute towards the attainment of Sustainable Development Goal 7 of ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all by 2030. After taking this course, learners gain the energy literacy necessary to become wise electricity consumers; more importantly, they are enabled to advocate for wise energy use towards an environment-friendly, sustainably-developed society.

Leisure Travel Services and Operations (GE-FEL LTSO)
This course provides the learners an overview of the nature and characteristics of the of the travel trade industry by briefly looking into its origin, etymology, the leisure traveler’s characteristics and their motivations to travel. As an inducting course to the travel trade business, the learners will be introduced to the rudiments of pre-tour preparations including the identification of leisure travel destination by geographical division and segmentation, preparation of government – mandated and destination specific travel documents. Learners will also be taught to source and provide leisure travel information and advice which are relevant information in determining the leisure traveler’s ideal destination.

Tour Services (GE-FEL TS)
This course provides the learners an overview of one of the many products that travel management company or tour operators sell - tours. It introduces the components of a tour, types of tours, its distinct characteristics and the typical clients who usually avails them. It also entails to develop, maintain and update local knowledge on the Philippine Tourism Destination, its characteristics, challenges and opportunities. The end goal is for the student to be equipped with the general knowledge in drafting, designing and presenting information essential in planning and executing tours in various tourist destinations in the Philippines.

Mugs Coffee: Barista 101 (GE-FEL MCB101)
This Course is designed to acquaint the student with the information needed to be a world class barista. The student will learn everything they need to know in order to create delicious & beautiful espresso drinks. By completion of this course the student will recognize how artistic or scientific in creating espresso and espresso mixed drinks can be.

Home Away From Home (GE-FEL HAFH)
This course enables the students to describe the operational set up of the accommodation/lodging industry. This will introduce the key operational principles behind hotel management. This will explore the hospitality business environment and will enable the student to appreciate the experience that the accommodation industry is offering.

Love at First Bite: Basic Baking 101 (GE-FEL LFBBB101)
This course will equip the students with the necessary skills to prepare them in the actual preparation of making Cookies, Brownies, Cakes and Icing. Student will undergo demonstration and hands-on training with the chef on the various preparations of different Cookies, Brownies, Cakes and Icing and will able to make judgment on the final outcome of the products, knows how to utilize ingredients and able to troubleshoot the process of the products if necessary.