The following lists the GE Free Electives that USC offers and their descriptions (Part 3):

Economics for Everyday Life (GE-FEL EEL)
This course is intended to apply the principles of economics in decision making. The course is divided into two sections. The first section is microeconomics : the economics of decision-making. Microeconomics studies the allocation of scarce resources at the level of individual decision makers: individuals, households, and business firms. The second half of the course tackles the analyses of the economy as a whole.

Breakfast Economics: Macro Fundamentals (GE-FEL BEMF)
The course surveys the essential principles in one of the two major branches of economics, Macroeconomics, which tackles the analysis of the economy as a whole. The second course in sequence is macroeconomics, which is considered as the science of resource allocation under the assumption of scarcity.

Investment Management (GE-FEL INVEST101)
The course deals with the application of the principles of investment analysis and portfolio management to corporate and personal finances. The steps and procedures involved in the investment process are discussed and simulated by the students to provide them with skills at creating their own corporate or personal investment portfolios in the future. Risk and return management strategies are discussed and analysed as they apply not only to the global investment setting but also to the specific investment situations in the Philippine market.

How did we get here? A Historical Perspective of the Philippine Economy (GE-FEL HPPE)
This course looks at Philippine history from the perspective of how the Philippine nation-state and its precursors organized the production, consumption and distribution of goods and services. The overarching framework is that of North (1991). In this framework, the focus is on "institutions" or "the humanly devised constraints that structure political, economic, and social interaction." Economic history is then viewedfrom the lens of institutional change that determines the performance of economies over time. This perspective is applied to Philippine economic history. The course starts with an examination of the Pre-Spanish period, moving in turn to the initial organization of national economic institutions during the spanish period, the subsequent transformation in the American Colonial period, the brief Japanese occupation and the post-war organization of the economy up to the end of the Martial Law period. The consequences of these institutional changes or persistence in terms of Philippine economic performance are discussed at appropriate junctures.

Brand not Bland: Creating Brands that Work (GE-FEL BNBCBW)
Through this course, students will learn about the fundamentals of branding and design and itsimpact on products and services in the lives of consumers. This elective will seek to answer thequestions of how one can create a brand and its identity, gain an understanding of the basic purpose, benefits, and responsibilities of branding as well as spread it and sustain it in an ever-changing world. Students will learn about history and origin as well as apply the principles using current trends and practices in order to create their own brands for a variety of products and services across all industries including professional practice. Whether for commercial, business or personal purpose- a positive brand image is one of the most effective ways of creating successful relationships, generating goodwill and building loyalty among companies, organizations its customers and the rest of society. Sustainable Development Goals tackled in this course are: Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11).

Contemporary Art and Corporate Practice (GE-FEL ACE)
The course is an introduction to creative production in a collaborative or corporate environment. It introduces students to recent contemporary art practices that are relevant to professional practice. This is in line with the realization that art or creative practice can encourage innovation, nurture a healthy working environment, and foster a socially responsive corporate ethic.

Data Processing 101 (GE-FEL DP101)
This lab-based course is designed to give students a brief introduction to common statistical software programs used in research and practice. We will primarily focus on Excel, PhSta, SPSS, SAS, and R software; other applications will be briefly introduced. The purpose of this course is not to teach students statistical concepts and theories, but rather to help students build basic competence related to data management, analysis, and visualization across the different programs.

Applied Multivariate Statistics for Researchers (GE-FEL AMSR)
Researchers usually obtained multiple measurements from a single individual or unit. This course will develop the statistical skills in the analyses multivariate data correctly in an applied context. It is designed to provide students with a working knowledge of the basic concepts underlying the most important multivariate techniques, with an overview of actual applications in various fields, and with experience in actually using such techniques on a problem of their own choosing. The course will address both the underlying mathematics and problems of applications.Topics will include the following linear and multiple regression analyses, logistic regression, factor analyses, cluster analyses, multivariate analysis of variance, analysis of covariance, discriminant analysis, multidimensional scaling, correspondence analysis, path analysis, and structural equation modelling. The course aims to teach these tools through their application to different disciplines. This course offers hands-on experience using SPSS for the most frequently encountered multivariate statistical techniques in the social and behavioural sciences. The emphasis is on applying multivariate techniques using the computer programme SPSS, and on how to interpret SPSS output in substantive terms.

From Data to Wisdom: An Intro to Applied Data Science (GE-FEL DWIADS)
Data Science is the study of the generalizable extraction of knowledge from data. Being a data scientist requires an integrated skill set spanning mathematics, statistics, machine learning, databases and other branches of computer science along with a good understanding of the craft of problem formulation to engineer effective solutions. This course will introduce students to this rapidly growing field and equip them with some of its basic principles and tools as well as its general mindset. Students will learn concepts, techniques and tools they need to deal with various facets of data science practice, including data collection and integration, exploratory data analysis, predictive modeling, descriptive modeling, data product creation, evaluation, and effective communication. The focus in the treatment of these topics will be on breadth, rather than depth, and emphasis will be placed on integration and synthesis of concepts and their application to solving problems. To make the learning contextual, real datasets from a variety of disciplines will be used.

Science and Philosophy (GE-FEL SP)
This course introduces the students to the philosophical analysis concerning issues and problems in science. The introductory part is devoted to views of the universe and the competing scientific views of the universe; the remaining part of the course focuses on the philosophical issues related to science.

Man's Desire for Knowledge and the Ways of Seeing Things (GE-FEL MDKWST)
The course will explore the foundation of the desire of human beings for knowledge as a result of the delight we take in our senses, esp. the sense of sight. It will also deal with the nature of inquiry and explain its different kinds progressing towards the examination of the very nature of philosophical inquiry. Although philosophy was deemed to be the mother of all sciences, but the allure of scientific inquiry seems to snatch away from philosophy such an accolade. Nevertheless, even if sciences “have refined techniques, apparatus, and methodologies for disclosing things and events that lie beyond the senses. Some of the greatest discoveries of science occur in areas that transcend the here and now, exposing a world that is bizarre in relation to everyday material bodies. Such discoveries reveal alien beings that challenge our capacities of imagination.” This is when philosophy has shown once again its appeal. The course will therefore discuss the modes of philosophical inquiry.