The following lists the GE Free Electives that USC offers and their descriptions (Part 4):

Technology and Philosophy (GE-FEL TP)
This course reflects on the technological phenomenon using philosophical tools of analysis. It examines several theoretical attempts to understand the nature of technology; how it affects various aspects of human life, that is, how it influences human decisions and valuations; how it affects human relations; and most importantly, how it shapes the human life-world.

Thanatology (Philosophy of Dying and Death)
Thanatology is a three-unit course that enables students to examine into some core issues of human existence such as death, dying and the meaning and value of life. We will probe on how our attitudes on the subject of death and dying affect and influence our lives. Questions of life and death and how they connect with our choices and responsibilities, our understanding of ourselves as mortal beings, and our vision of what constitutes a good life (and maybe a good death) will be explored. Some key philosophical teachings will be used as primary sources as well as some relevant articles and literatures from other disciplines on the topic will be considered to make this course interdisciplinary.

The Just Society and the Market (GE-FEL JSM)
One of the earliest conceptions of justice -giving one’s due- is entangled with the process of distribution and exchange of resources necessary for the flourishing of human life. The apparatus that has this process for its function is the market. The relation between justice and the market, therefore, is as intertwined as human life is to human society. This course will examine the connection between the market and the question of justice. Thus, this course will primarily proceed in a diachronic manner that will show the deep historical development of the relation between the two that will bring to fore philosophical, economical, sociological and theological concepts that inform this development, from the concept of needs and labour, the question of distributive justice and the fair allocation of resources, the morality of profit, the basis of property, to the notions of liberty, equality, equity, international solidarity and even the Christian idea of the Charity. The examination of this deep historical development will bring to light pressing contemporary global issues. Ultimately, this course demonstrate that these contemporary global issues, both pressing and serious, will find their proper context in the study of the relation between the market and the idea of justice.

Caring for our Environment: Human Development and the Ethics of Sustainability (GE-FEL CEHDES)
The course will explore the ethical issues arising from the relationship between man and the natural environment. Development is a highly contested concept. What do we mean when we say development? Should we construe the term in purely economic terms? The course will tie this concept to human development as it is understood by two important development theorists, namely, Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum. By doing so, we enhance the meaning of this notion which could be used as a model in and as a basis for public policy and governance for the advancement of human welfare and the protection of the natural environment. There is a tension between the concept of development and caring for the environment. Development, if it is understood as unlimited economic growth could be fatal to efforts in environmental protection and management. In order to thwart the peril brought about by this notion of development, there is a need to examine and reconceived this notion so as not to endanger the natural environment and compromise the welfare of the future generation.

Our Philippines Today, a Glimpse of My Past (GE-FEL PTGMP)
The subject will trace the evolution of Philippine political institutions and its implication to the current politico-administrative and socio-economic life of the country. Discussions delve on the historical development of these institutions from the Pre-spanish era to the present highlighting its contexts and processes with the aim of learning the valuable lessons of political history. This Political education subject aims to lay down the foundations for the students becoming competent, noble in character, and community-oriented citizen in a Philippine democratic society.

Policy Advocacy: Working for Change (GE-FEL PAWC)
This course introduces students to the foundations of policy advocacy. It begins with an orientation about the importance of policies in maintaining order within the community. It continues with an acknowledgment of the prevailing socio-political issues and challenges that confront the contemporary world, as well as the advocacy activities and strategies that can be considered in addressing them. At the end of the course students are expected not only to be socio-politically aware, but also evidence-based decision-makers in steering their spheres of influence and public support towards good governance.

Understanding Local Politics (GE-FEL ULP)
This course explores into the dynamics of local politics in the City and Province of Cebu. The first part of the discussions deals with the theories and frameworks in studying local politics. With these foundations in place, the discussion proceeds to revisit Cebu's political past and its transition towards the present political dynamics while casting an eye into such topics as anarchy of political families, bossism and patron-clientelism. The course wraps up with reflective discussions on the future of Cebu's politics.

Skills in Argumentation (GE-FEL SA)
This course introduces the learner to the concepts and principles in public speaking and debate which will enable them to articulate their positions on certain issues and also influence others through rational process. By means of these processes, the student will discover the most appropriate method of expression and conviction on matters and issues affecting the Philippines, ASEAN, and the world. It will also enable the learner to apply the principles in his/her academic life, community life, and professional life. The course also hopes to nurture within the students the values of openness and tolerance to other people's ideas and beliefs within the context of an increasingly diverse and multicultural world.

Human Rights 101 (GE-FEL HR101)
Students of this three-unit course will become familiar to the underlying concepts, principles and theories of democracy helpful in understanding the future or democracy in these countries. Moreover, this course will provide students with an overview of the most important theories as to how to make democracy work.

Responsible Citizenship (GE-FEL RC)
Students will be expected to place themselves in the midst of the Philippines democratization process and use the same as an inspiration to support its cornerstones and pursue its preservation. Awareness of the various socio political issues will be very vital especially highlighting the specific measures where direct political participation is called for. In the end, the course would like to equip students with a clearer perspective on the duties and responsiblities each filipino citizen ought to take to ensure thata better Philippines is built everyday.

Mental Health: Taking Better Control of Yourself (GE-FEL MH-TBCY)
This course will provide an overview of the fundamental knowledge on mental health (definition, continuum, stigma), awareness of biological, psychosocial factors that shape our mental health; management of cognition, emotions, and behaviors and recommended corresponding interventions.

Appreciating Filipino Values and Culture (GE-FEL AFVC)
This course give emphasis on inspiring the student's knowledge on the mindset and behavior of the Filipino based on his/her very own Filipino experiences, thoughts and orientation. It tackles the theory, method and application including the limitations of the current indigenous Filipino Psychology vis-a-vis the prevailing Philippine Psychology.